# ACCO Brands: Optimizing Customer Experience with Optimizely’s Customized

Commerce Platform

Learn how ACCO Brands EMEA leveraged Optimizely's Platform to Enhance Customer
Experiences

## At a glance

- 10 websites launched on a single platform
- Sites running in 25 languages
- 61% reduction in content localization time
- 80% increase in lead generation from January to April 2023

# Introduction

ACCO Brands is a leading supplier of consumer, academic and office products,
with a long heritage and a wide product portfolio, operating in multiple markets
across Europe. To enhance digital experiences for its customers, ACCO Brands
relies on Optimizely as its primary technology partner. Through a strategic
collaboration with Wunderman Thompson, Optimizely's Customized Commerce platform
has enabled ACCO Brands to overcome challenges in user experience, content
management, and search engine optimization, leading to significant improvements
in lead generation, content efficiency, and overall performance.**Adoption of
Optimizely's Platform**

ACCO Brands has been an Optimizely customer since 2014 and transitioned to the
Optimizely One platform in 2020. Partnering with Wunderman Thompson, ACCO Brands
embarked on a journey to optimize customer experiences using Optimizely's robust
features. Wunderman Thompson played a pivotal role in the implementation
process, providing technical expertise and support to align ACCO Brands' digital
strategy with Optimizely's capabilities.**Integrations**

Wunderman Thompson seamlessly integrated Optimizely's Customized Commerce
solution with ACCO Brands' existing tech stack, including a bespoke Product
Information Management (PIM) system, Optimizely Campaign for email marketing,
and Prisync by Commerce Connector for dealer integration. This integration
enhanced data flow and streamlined processes, facilitating efficient lead
generation and channel partner management.

Since we've been using Optimizely's platform to the extent that we are now,
we've really seen improvements in content management efficiencies. The platform
gives us control that we need at a central level, but the flexibility for our
local markets to localise content as they see fit.

Björn Barnard

Director of Online Marketing EMEA

**Benefits**

The adoption of Optimizely's platform has yielded several benefits for ACCO
Brands. Enhanced content management efficiencies, facilitated by Optimizely CMS,
have empowered central teams to maintain control while allowing local markets
the flexibility to customize content rapidly. Leveraging Optimizely's project
feature, ACCO Brands achieved a 61% reduction in content localization time,
supported by integration with MemoQ for translation management.

Additionally, Optimizely's Visitor Group functionality enables personalized
landing pages tailored to user behavior, driving a remarkable 80% increase in
lead generation within the first four months of implementation. This
personalized approach not only enhances conversion rates but also strengthens
partnerships with channel dealers, benefiting the wider business
ecosystem.**Features and Solutions Utilized**

ACCO Brands leverages a comprehensive suite of Optimizely One features,
including Optimizely CMS for content management, Optimizely Campaign for email
marketing, Optimizely Search and Navigation for enhanced site search, and
Optimizely Analytics for performance measurement and optimization. By utilizing
these solutions, ACCO Brands ensures seamless user experiences and maximizes
engagement across digital touchpoints.**Impact on Day-to-Day Operations**

For Bjorn Barnard, Optimizely has become an indispensable tool in driving
digital marketing initiatives at ACCO Brands. The platform's intuitive interface
and robust capabilities empower him to orchestrate centralized strategies while
enabling local teams to execute personalized campaigns effectively. This
collaborative approach, supported by Wunderman Thompson's partnership, fosters
continuous innovation and agility in adapting to evolving market dynamics.

Every time I go to our account manager with a new problem or looking for a new
solution, Optimizely has something available or in the works that is going to
meet my needs. So at the moment, I'm very happy as an Optimizely customer.

Björn Barnard

Director of Online Marketing, EMEA

**Future Plans with Optimizely One Platform**

Looking ahead, ACCO Brands envisions a roadmap of continuous development and
optimization with Optimizely. Plans include upgrading to Optimizely 12 CMS to
leverage performance enhancements and exploring headless e-commerce
capabilities. With the support of Wunderman Thompson, ACCO Brands aims to stay
at the forefront of digital innovation, delivering unparalleled experiences to
its diverse customer base.**Conclusion**

Through a strategic partnership with Optimizely and Wunderman Thompson, ACCO
Brands has transformed its digital landscape, driving significant improvements
in user experience, content efficiency, and lead generation. By leveraging
Optimizely's Customized Commerce platform, ACCO Brands has unlocked new avenues
for growth and differentiation in the competitive consumer and office products
market. As they continue to innovate and evolve, ACCO Brands remains committed
to delivering exceptional value to its customers across Europe.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Products used

- Commerce Connect
- Configured Commerce
- Campaign

#### Customer's website

http://www.accobrands.com/
