## \*\*Admiral's dynamic partnership with Optimizely and Rapid Experimentation

team drives growth, efficiency and testing velocity\*\*

###### Rapid Tests, Rapid Growth: Learn how Admiral's strategic approach and

switch from Oracle Maxymiser increased internal efficiency, testing velocity and
conversion rate optimisation

## At a glance

- Multiple individual tests, utilising Optimizely’s experimentation resources combined with Admiral’s strategic approach, have resulted in significant increases in revenue
- Number of tests launched increased by 126% in 2020 to 2021 and 53% in 2021 to 2022
- Increased internal efficiency with Rapid Experimentation support
- Time taken to launch tests has been reduced, highlighted by the number of tests increasing

Admiral, a prominent player in the UK insurance industry, stands as a testament
to innovation and adaptability. Established in 1993, the company has grown to
become one of the leading providers of car insurance, home insurance, and
various other financial products. With a customer-centric approach and a
commitment to transparency, Admiral has garnered a reputation for offering
competitive rates and embracing technological advancements to enhance its
services.

Admiral’s Optimisation Management team, led by Ben Williams and David Dewey
(both Optimisation Managers), look after the conversion rate optimisation (CRO)
of the entire end-to-end customer lifecycle journey. Ben Williams’ team focus on
managing experiments related to household, motor, travel, MultiCover and
MultiCar offerings primarily on the website's quote engine. Dewey focuses on
maintaining customer engagement and retention within “Admiral 2.0”. His role
involves preventing customer attrition by optimising experiences in ‘My
Account’, the quote engine, and landing pages to encourage user retention and
avoid unnecessary calls to the call centre.

The team serve a plethora of internal stakeholders, including the marketing,
affiliate marketing, product, Pay-Per-Click (PPC), value optimisation and
customer relationship management teams respectively.

Admiral’s journey began with Optimizely in February 2021.

## Problem

Ben Williams, shared that, after using A/B testing tool Oracle Maxymiser for
seven years previously, there was a desire to search the market for a potential
new and improved experimentation platform. He detailed that Admiral embarked on
a thorough evaluation of web experimentation platforms in 2019, The evaluation
process was initially delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic and a team merger to
unify Williams’ and Dewey’s previously separate teams.

Admiral initiated a tender process, with several experimentation platform
vendors under consideration. During the evaluation, Optimizely stood out for
several reasons. Optimizely’s response during the Request for Proposal (RFP)
stage demonstrated a commitment that resonated with Admiral. The proof of
concept (POC) further solidified their confidence, with a clean and user-
friendly platform.

Additionally, Both the optimisation team and leadership at Admiral recognized
Optimizely as the superior choice, citing its proactive engagement, user-
friendly platform, and overall better service.

Therefore, Optimizely’s full experimentation suite, containing both Web
Experimentation and Feature Experimentation products was selected by Admiral to
support the insurance giant on its A/B testing and optimisation endeavours.

## Solution

Admiral’s Optimisation Managers received hands-on training, onboarding and
guidance from the Optimizely team. Ben Williams shared that Admiral were
delighted with the training they received, explaining that Optimizely “took us
by the hand, providing extensive training sessions with various friendly and
helpful experts… everyone was super friendly, and this really helped the process
seem enjoyable rather than just another boring onboarding process.”

Since we onboarded Optimizely the efficiency of the team has definitely
increased. We have a lot of processes in place now and we collaborate with
Optimizely’s Rapid Experimentation team a lot to help improve these processes so
we can get tests out the door quicker. We noticed value straight away with
Optimizely, mainly from being able to use the tool instantly and launching tests
within the first month on onboarding. Velocity increased straight away meaning
more winning tests and greater ROI.

Ben Williams

Optimisation Manager

After onboarding, Admiral and quickly got to work in leveraging Optimizely’s
experimentation platforms to elevate the digital experience for its subscribers
whilst testing and iterating on new ideas, product launches and conversion
optimisation and strategy.

Whilst Admiral are no newcomers to the discipline of web experimentation and A/B
Testing, the organisation’s renewed and targeted focus on conversion rate
optimisation, supported by Optimizely’s platform and Rapid Experimentation team,
has paid dividends.

Admiral utilises key Web Experimentation features such as the **Visual Editor**
, which allows users to easily make visual and text changes to webpages and
**Stats Engine** , which makes sure that experiments reach statistical
significance as quickly as possible. Admiral also gain value from Optimizely’s
**Stats Accelerator** , which allows its users’ experiments to reach statistical
significance up to 300% faster on experiments with many variations (at least
three), utilising dynamic updates and weighting to the tests in order to reduce
time to finding the best significant variation.

Ben Williams noted that “as an optimisation team, we believe the results and
trust them”, highlighting the full confidence the team have in the statistical
validity of Optimizely’s experimentation platform.

The velocity of experiments has dramatically increased throughout the
organisation. The number of tests launched increased by 126% between 2020 and
2021 and 53% between 2021 and 2022. Williams also shared that “we have certainly
reduced the time it takes to launch a test as you can tell from the velocity. We
use the WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get) visual editor tool a lot more
with Optimizely which cuts down developer and design time.”

The experiments ran by Admiral’s optimisation teams are heavily supported by
Optimizely’s **Rapid Experimentation (Rapid X)** team. Admiral employ a
systematic internal process for running experiments. Stakeholder briefs or
internally generated ideas are discussed during weekly meetings with Rapid X
team members, where test concepts are discussed and refined. Subsequently, these
ideas enter project management for sizing up and development, involving
collaboration with multiple design teams.

With a structured approach, the process leaves much of the implementation in the
hands of the Rapid X team, leaning on their expertise to manage the large parts
of the testing process, from sizing up projects, collaborating with design
teams, to development and QA. The trust Admiral places in the Optimizely team,
often regarding Rapid X team members as one of their own, is a testament to the
strong relationship that has been forged. This trust in the Rapid
Experimentation team has resulted in a smooth and successful testing process.

## Integrations

Optimizely’s **Web Experimentation** platform integrates seamlessly with
Admiral’s internal applications and software such as Contentsquare and Get
Feedback.

Contentsquare's analytics platform, tracking billions of digital interactions,
provides invaluable insights into customer behaviour, empowering Admiral's teams
to make data-driven decisions for improving customer experiences, growing
revenue, and fostering innovation. The bi-directional integration combines
Contentsquare's unique customer behaviour insights with Optimizely's progressive
delivery and experimentation capabilities, enabling Admiral to innovate
confidently and derive maximum value from customer experience initiatives.

Additionally, the integration with Get Feedback, a survey tool, allows Admiral
to capture customer sentiments during key touchpoints in the quote engine
journey. Admiral prioritizes the regular use of Contentsquare for post-QA
analysis, ensuring variations align with expectations and proactively addressing
any issues to uphold a seamless customer experience. This integration strategy
showcases Admiral's commitment to leveraging cutting-edge technologies for
optimal digital optimisation and customer-centric strategies.

## Use Case 1 – MultiCar Conversion Variance Testing

In an innovative experiment, the Admiral Optimisation Team undertook a
comprehensive MultiCar insurance proposition to enhance the online conversion
process for customers interested in bundling multiple vehicles or combining car
and home insurance policies. Through three meticulous iterations and extensive
workshops, the team refined the user experience, addressing challenges in
conveying the benefits of policy bundling on a single screen.

Four variations were tested originally. After the initial phase, where variants
were reduced to V1 and V2, a crucial observation led to a modification in the
call-to-action (CTA) from green buttons to a more compelling "Get Your Discount"
message. Despite a notable drop in CTA clicks compared to the control, the
overall conversion rates for both multi and single car insurance increased in
the variants.

Notably, the final iteration chosen, labelled V2, also featured a dedicated FAQ
section. The V2 iteration proved to be the most successful, . The experiment
also extended to MultiCover scenarios, such as adding home insurance to an
existing car insurance plan, resulting in a similar financial gain.

The process involved multiple months of testing, emphasising a patient and
thorough approach, including design workshops and iterations, showcasing the
Admiral’s commitment to improving its digital offering and reducing customer
decision fatigue.

### Control version

### V2 Variation (final version selected)

## Conclusion

Admiral is gearing up for a transformative 12-18 months, with a key focus on
enhancing personalisation capabilities. The insurance giant, having adopted a
new internal structure known as ‘Scaled Agile’, look to focus on greater
alignment with the broader organisational goals. This shift ensures that
optimisation efforts are not isolated but are integral to the company's overall
objectives.

Optimisation Manager, David Dewey, highlights the evolving mindset within the
organization, as executives having gained a solid year of experience, leading to
increased confidence in building tests and generating a robust backlog of ideas.

With Optimizely’s experimentation platform, support from the Rapid
Experimentation team and the Contentsquare integration providing valuable
insights, Admiral aims to leverage its newfound alignment and knowledge to
implement an extensive series of tests, thereby staying at the forefront of
industry trends and customer-centric strategies.

The emphasis on testing, personalisation and collaborative optimisation reflects
Admiral's commitment to evolving with the dynamic landscape of the insurance
industry for years to come.

#### Products used

- Web Experimentation
- Feature Experimentation

#### Customer's website

http://admiral.com/
