# Age UK assists over 7 million members over 60

One of the UK's largest charities built a digitally inclusive site for the
over-60s, becoming a leading digital site in the charity sector.

## In with the old, in with the new

The over-60s are the fastest growing age category in the UK, and placed at the
heart of supporting them are charity Age UK, the largest charity provider of
services and support to older people. They assist over 7 million members with
advice and support every day.

In order to remain as open and accessible to their members, Age UK wanted to
update and refresh their website whilst supporting ongoing marketing campaigns.
The extent of this would include a vibrant, new mobile experience that would
meet the growing trend of over-60s using mobile devices.

## The founding partnership

Working closely alongside Optimizely Partner Netcel, Age UK prioritised user-
journeys and a fully responsive site to meet their users needs. Optimizely
Content Cloud was selected as the platform of choice that ensured the new site
met Age UK's priority across desktop, mobile and tablet.

Age UK’s marketing team are able to make fast changes to the site without the
need for additional IT support. The team are able to facilitate new digital
communication channels with their audience group now across all devices. This
improved engagement is set to continue as Age UK continue to build out their
experiential journey.

## Digitally inclusive

Small, yet intricate features help make the entire site inclusive to vunerable
users. Click-to-listen for example enables visitors, who may have visual
impairments, to hear the page content read out.

Age UK have set the bar for charities in the UK to have a ‘Cloud-first’ approach
to digital services. The Optimizely Content Cloud helps reduce an organizations
overall cost on server maintenance meaning funds can be distributed to other
critical areas.

## Not moving slow

Since implementation, Age UK have strengthened how they communicate with
audiences. The Age UK have used their new assets as an opportunity to learn more
about their users on a deeper level - ultimately improving the support they
offer. Netcel continue to help Age UK create responsive solutions for its
partner sites, analysisng usage data and user feedback to deliver further
improvements to the site.

#### Industry

Charity and non-profits

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

http://www.ageuk.org.uk/

## In collaboration with:

Netcel Ltd.

Optimizely Customer Choice Partner of the Year 2023 and 2022 Netcel is a leading
digital product consultancy and Optimizely specialist, combining our passion for
digital experience and the full end-to-end...
