# AGI decreases bounce rates by 15.6%

Paving a new digital legacy in an industry riddled with low digital appetite.
AGI pave the way for a digital revolution to enhance global food supply.

## ''We're doing something that's super important. How do we feed the planet,

how do we take care of people?''

Optimizely sat down with David Postill, Senior Vice President Marketing &
Customer Experience at AGI.

He begins by telling us about the initiation of AGI. ''Well, we describe
ourselves as a food infrastructure company. So, we started in the agricultural
equipment business in Western Canada, selling one piece of equipment in one
small region. In the grain farming business, you have a whole pile of what are
called short line pieces of equipment; augers, conveyors, storage bins, fans,
heaters, silos. And so, the company started by consolidating those pieces of
equipment and offering it as a total solution. And that allowed us to grow from
being just exclusively a farm agricultural supplier of equipment to a broader
food infrastructure''.

AGI are the leading grain handling business, often recognized as the flagship
equipment manufacturers in the global agriculture industry. Their products
operate across 6 continents and in turn, service millions of end-users.

Their customers consist of farm businesses, individual farmers who buy equipment
through dealers or direct, all the way to large engineering and procurement
operators. This diverse mix means there is never a single customer view - a
challenge AGI are proactively responding to.

## Serving resonating products and services according to geography

With the various markets AGI operate, we asked David whether there was a stark
difference in offering. He tells us, ''North America [is] very different from
how we go to market in Brazil or South America. Very different from how we go to
market in the Middle East or Europe, for that matter. Products, offerings,
positionings, our branding even, is very different geography to geography''.

AGI relied on a non-coherent, complex infastructure to serve global markets
digitally. Their legacy infrastructure comprised of;

- 42 different unique web properties
- 5 languages
- 16 different software platforms,
- Confused piping
- CMS systems that weren't all knitted together

As AGI grew, they shifted their focus on marrying all digital web properties on
to one, seamless platform that would enhance their proposition.

On his mission, David explains, ''I was brought in three years ago to take what
they had and make it modern digital, global, and efficient. So it's one of the
reasons we landed on working with Optimizely''.

Optimizely Content Cloud is the robust, scalable solution AGI rely upon today.
Sitting on Microsoft Azure, Content Cloud enables AGI to quickly create powerful
digital experiences in every territory they operate. Instead of a disparate,
complex web of digital software solutions, Optimizely delivers content and
personalization on one platform.

So people land on the homepage, they engage with our content and they move
through the experience. So the metrics are all fantastic right now. They're
significantly over everywhere we were.

David Postill

SVP, AGI

David describes Optimizely as a powerful, tactical tool that is, ''super
flexible, super customizable, but in a very easy way. You've got great
templates. We've been able to build up cool and flexible customizations. It's a
very user-friendly experience. I also think that you have exactly the right
functionality for us in well-constructed modules that we can add as we grow over
time''.

When it comes to the strategic steps David and AGI have undertaken to proportion
the right experiences to different markets we hear that AGI, ''provide a
platform for seed, for fertilizer, for grain, for feed and then for food'', he
mentions. ''Each of those platforms have their own unique demands, their own
customer buying journeys, their own marketing challenges that are also slice and
dice by geography around the world''. David then describes how their digital
platform performs to create an eco-system for these channels. ''We have to build
marketing solutions, web platforms that on one hand work with a dealer channel
in North America, on the other hand work directly with end users or growers in
Europe. And the expectation for a tool to be highly flexible, easily
customizable, content driven is paramount to our success''.

## Feeeding the appetite of digital farmers

When talking about customer experience, David shares, ''I think a good customer
experience, obviously, begins by just understanding what's important to our
customers. And that's more than just clicks and links as to what's going on in
their lives. In the food production industry, there is a ton of pressure from
sustainability point of view, from an environmental point of view, from a use of
resources point of view. In different parts of the world they're having a
different experiences right now in terms of what's important to them.''

As David puts it, Optimizely is helping AGI, ''with the rollout of the website
we were able to go see, and this is what it's supposed to look like, and this is
how we should go to market''.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

http://www.aggrowth.com/
