## \*\*Allspring Global Investments utilizes Optimizely's CMS to redesign website

and enhance client experience\*\*

How Allspring’s website redesign and intranet implementation with Optimizely’s
CMS transformed their digital experience

## At a glance

- Seamless transition from previous large financial institution to establish distinct identity
- Significant improvement in content management, personalization, data storage capabilities and overall client experience
- Enhanced developer efficiency
- Strategic integrations with CRM and data analytics platforms

## **Background**

Allspring Global Investments is an independent asset management firm formed in 2021. The company provides a wide range of investment management services,
including mutual funds, retirement planning, and institutional investing,
catering to a global client base across various asset classes such as equities,
fixed income, and alternatives.Managing and advising a portfolio of over $571bn
worth of assets as of 6/30/2024, Allspring emphasizes a client-first approach
and integrates environmental, social, and governance (ESG) considerations into
their strategies.**Allspring Global: A New Beginning** In November 2021,
Allspring emerged as a standalone entity following its separation from a large
financial institution. This marked the beginning of a significant digital
transformation aimed at establishing a distinct identity and enhancing client
experiences. Optimizely’s CMS played a pivotal role in this transformation.

As Tahmina Choudhury, Head of Client Journey Management Technology explained,
the transition and separation from its previous financial institution presented
several challenges. The legacy systems, particularly a 20-year-old Java-based
application, created complexities in managing and transferring data to the new
website. Despite these hurdles, the primary focus remained on ensuring a
seamless client experience and establishing a robust digital presence.**Why
Optimizely/Separation from Previous Bank**

Allspring underwent a nearly three-year transition to separate from its previous
entity, focusing on building necessary systems from scratch while migrating
legacy systems to the cloud. This rapid, all-encompassing shift was unique in
the heavily regulated asset management industry, which typically moves to the
cloud incrementally. Choosing a content management system (CMS) for Allspring
was challenging due to the stringent regulatory environment of the asset
management industry. In its previous guise, the company was restricted to using
SDL Tridion with limited control, managed by an enterprise group.

Post-separation, Allspring conducted a thorough RFP process in 2020, evaluating
leading CMS platforms like Sitecore, Optimizely, and Acquia. The decision to
choose Optimizely was influenced by its cost benefits, flexibility, security
features, and integration capabilities. The transition allowed Allspring to move
from a highly restrictive environment to a more flexible, cloud-based
infrastructure, enhancing their technological capabilities.

We have seen our web traffic increase significantly. Our financial advisors have
also received positive feedback from clients, with one stating, 'This is the
best site in the industry.' This acknowledgment is a testament to how well the
new site has been perceived within our industry.

Tahmina Choudhury

Head of Client Journey Management Technology, Allspring Global Investments

## **Utilizing Optimizely's CMS: A Strategic Move**

Allspring undertook a comprehensive process to build its new website on
Optimizely's CMS, focusing on enhancing the client experience and providing a
dynamic, data-rich platform. The project began with a "lift and shift" of the
existing site from the previous infrastructure to Optimizely, despite challenges
posed by legacy systems and ongoing data transitions. The redesign aimed to make
the site visually appealing and significantly increase data availability,
tripling the amount of data displayed. This required extensive co-development
with expert partners Perficient to adapt to interconnected systems still linked
to its former bank. Previously, the website hosted only a third of the data it
now holds. This expansion was crucial for a data-driven industry like asset
management.Launched in March 2024, Allspring’s new website is a dynamic and
visually engaging digital experience that better tells Allspring’s story and
supports its data-driven approach, showcasing their products and services
effectively. Galliard Capital Management, a subsidiary of Allspring, also hosts
its website on Optimizely’s CMS.Beyond the public-facing websites, Optimizely’s
CMS was also utilized to create an intranet for internal communications. This
intranet, named Springboard, facilitates resource sharing, departmental
communication, and provides access to newsletters from the CEO. It serves as a
crucial communication tool for Allspring's employees, although plans for further
enhancements are underway.**Content Management and Developer Efficiency** Prior
to implementing Optimizely, Allspring's content processes were cumbersome and
required significant developer intervention for updates and new content
creation. With Optimizely’s CMS, content authors gained more autonomy, reducing
the dependency on developers for routine tasks. This shift allowed the
development team to focus on strategic integrations and improving the overall
technology infrastructure.

From a MarTech perspective, Optimizely has been a great tool for us. It has
helped us elevate our content management and digital experience platform to the
level we needed. The ease of use for content authors and the seamless
integration capabilities have been significant benefits.

Tahmina Choudhury

Head of Client Journey Management Technology, Allspring Global Investments

## **Focus on Client Experience**

Client experience is at the heart of Allspring’s digital strategy. The new
website design, with its dynamic content and personalized user journeys, aims to
cater to various personas—from individual investors to institutional advisors.
The goal is to make the website intuitive and responsive to the needs of
different user groups, thereby improving user engagement and satisfaction.Since
redesigning their website with Optimizely, Tahmina Choudhury noted that
Allspring has seen a significant increase in web traffic and received positive
industry feedback. Clients and industry peers have reported that the new site is
considered one of the best in the industry. This recognition highlights the
success of the redesign and its impact on improving user engagement and
perception.

## **Technical Excellence with Optimizely’s CMS**

One of the standout technical benefits of Optimizely’s CMS is the control it
offers over the tech stack. Developers at Allspring have leveraged features like
Smooth Deploy to streamline deployments, which was not possible in its previous
environment. The flexibility and control provided by Optimizely have
significantly improved operational efficiency and allowed the team to implement
custom solutions as needed.

Optimizely's focus on continually investing in its core CMS product gives us
confidence that it will remain a crucial part of our digital strategy. The
platform's ability to connect with various compliance and security tools makes
it ideal for our needs as an asset management company.

Tahmina Choudhury

Head of Client Journey Management Technology, Allspring Global Investments

## **Development Workflow and Branching Strategy**

Allspring's development workflow involves multiple environments: Development,
User Acceptance Testing (UAT), and Production. They use GitHub for code
repositories and GitHub Actions for CI/CD pipelines, with plans to transition to
Jenkins, aligning with enterprise standards.For context, a branching strategy in
software development is a plan or methodology that developers use to manage the
different branches within a version control system like Git. Branches are used
to develop features, fix bugs, or experiment with new ideas in isolation from
the main codebase. Allspring’s branching strategy was overhauled to accommodate
hot fixes and feature isolation, preventing unready code from moving to
production. This involved creating isolated branches for different features and
hot fixes, which can be merged into the main branch once tested and approved.
This new strategy reduced the risk of deploying untested code and minimized
downtime.**Customizations and APIs**

Optimizely’s CMS has been customized extensively to meet Allspring’s specific
needs. Custom APIs were developed for data integration, particularly with Unity
for fund data and an external data analytics provider for web traffic
monitoring. These custom APIs ensure that real-time data is available on the
website, providing users with the latest information.

Optimizely is an ideal tool for us as it provided an easy-to-use platform for
content authors while allowing developers to focus on integrations and add-ons
rather than constant customization. The lack of infrastructure management and
seamless upgrades were huge benefits, making it a great solution for our MarTech
needs and integration with other systems.

Tahmina Choudhury

Head of Client Journey Management Technology, Allspring Global Investments

## **Monitoring and Performance**

Allspring employs Datadog for monitoring the health of their CMS and website,
tracking key metrics like page load times and uptime. Optimizely’s CMS links
with an external analytics tool Allspring use for web traffic analysis,
providing insights into user behaviour and engagement. These tools help maintain
optimal performance and ensure a high-quality user experience.**Security and
Compliance**

Security is paramount for Allspring, given its financial services background.
The CMS and website undergo regular security assessments, including dynamic
application security testing (DAST) to identify and mitigate vulnerabilities
such as SQL injection risks. The use of Optimizely’s built-in security features,
coupled with rigorous internal protocols, ensures that Allspring meets its
compliance requirements.**Conclusion: A strategic partnership**

Allspring’s partnership with Optimizely has been transformative, enabling the
company to establish a robust and dynamic digital presence. The focus on client
experience, combined with technical excellence and strategic integrations, has
set a strong foundation for future growth. As Allspring continues to evolve,
Optimizely’s CMS remains a critical component of its digital strategy, ensuring
the company can meet the ever-changing needs of its clients.Allspring plans to
enhance its digital ecosystem around Optimizely's CMS and the Optimizely One
platform. Having successfully redesigned their website, their next steps include
integrating a Digital Asset Management (DAM) system with Optimizely to
streamline content management. They are also selecting an accessibility vendor
to ensure content complies with accessibility standards before publication.
Additionally, Allspring aims to implement an SEO tool and a translation vendor,
creating a seamless and efficient ecosystem centred on Optimizely to improve
their operational efficiency and user experience.By leveraging Optimizely’s
capabilities, Allspring have not only navigated the challenges of transitioning
from a large financial institution but has also positioned itself as a leader in
delivering exceptional digital experiences in the asset management industry.

#### Industry

Financial services

#### Product used

- Content Management System
