# Altius Group enables stronger workplace lifestyles

## A new approach for its B2B proposition

Altius Group is an Australian workplace health and wellbeing service provider
offering innovative health, employment, risk and claims solutions for people and
workplaces. The business enables organizations and their people to optimize
their physical, mental and social health.

Altius Group was looking for a more holistic, integrated service proposition for
both its B2B customers and end patients. Consolidating six existing websites (on
different platforms) and value propositions into a single view of the offerings
of Altius Group was seen as a significant step to achieving this. Altius was
also looking for greater data and insights across the Group to provide more
personalized content and a solution that would help managing six websites with
different functional limitations more administratively efficient.

## A more active role in its customers lives

Optimizely partner Niteco worked closely with Altius marketing and IT teams to
deliver the technical strategy, design, platform selection, build and deployment
for the new Altius strategy. The decision was to re-platform the company’s
online presence into a single Optimizely instance. This included consolidating
and integrating the content from six separate CMS sites into a single instance.
Due to a fixed go-live date, Altius needed the project to be completed within a
tight timeframe, including obtaining feedback and agreement across the various
business units and stakeholders.

The approach was to focus on a simple and clean templated framework to ensure
content was easy to edit, authorise and publish across various channels. Special
attention was paid to the site’s performance, which included integrating
Cloudflare as a CDN solution. Ongoing performance monitoring tools were also
used to assist and provide analytical evidence to improve the customer journey
and ultimately improve customer engagement, market positioning and new
opportunities for the Altius Group.

With the new templated Optimizely solution and training of key staff, Altius has
been able to manage and engage all its business units to take a more active role
in developing a holistic value proposition of its services to the whole sector.

The simplified user interface has enabled it to manage social content (including
blogs, case studies and awards) and customer engagement in a much more efficient
way. This, in turn, allows clients and prospects to have a greater understanding
of the company’s broader service offerings and workplace solutions and become
the proud digital face of the Altius Group. It also allows sales staff to know
that content, articles and collateral is up to date, so they can present
information to clients with confidence.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

http://www.altius-group.com.au/

## In collaboration with:

Niteco AB

Niteco is a global end-to-end digital agency that can support your digital
transformation with consultancy, marketing, design and application management
services in addition to its world-class website...
