# American Academy of Neurology sees 20% increase in mobile traffic

## A collaboration of health professionals

The American Academy of Neurology (AAN) is the world’s largest association of
neurologists and neuroscience professionals, with 36,000 members. Founded in
1948 and based in Minneapolis, MN, the AAN strives to promotes the highest
quality patient-centered neurologic care and enhance member career satisfaction.

A central objective of the AAN’s digital infrastructure is to provide their
growing membership base true ease-of-use. Given the crucial role in their
professional lives, many AAN members have tight time constraints. Fast
‘findability’ of assets is critical to a successful user journey.

“Our members are top-of-the-line in their field, and they expect highly of us as
an association that serves them.’’

Carly Ferry, Senior Manager, Digital Content, American Academy of Neurology

## An updated platform that doesn’t eat time

The AAN’s existing digital environment, while fit for purpose, was in need of a
revamp. The Ektron solution provided a solid, practical workflow where teams
were able to collaborate; however, it no longer served members to a level they
were expecting. The association wanted to change the look and feel of the
website and begin working on a personalization suite in order to create dynamic
content for its members.

The AAN undertook a thorough market discovery exercise. After their research of
multiple vendors, they appointed Optimizely as their new digital platform
provider.

The objective was to refocus and redesign the AAN’s website to provide the best
level of service for members.

## Delivering experiences with ease

According to AAN Senior Manager, Digital Content, Carly Ferry, it wasn’t
difficult convincing the wider team to move to Optimizely. The AAN saw in
Optimizely a content management solution that would help the team manage and
individualize content experiences in one screen. The solution offered
personalization functionality so teams could personalize content according to
personas, segments, or individual users. Visitor groups were a welcome venture
for the AAN as they were able to dissect personas and differentiate content
based on their career stage.

## Actively changing expectations

‘’It was a huge leap. We have never done personalized features before. It’s a
big component for our new website.‘’ Carly Ferry, Senior Manager, Digital
Content, American Academy of Neurology

## Transformation in action

In just three months the AAN transitioned its designs into Optimizely and
migrated all its content ready for membership use. The association used the
visitor group feature of Optimizely to help create weekly content on the site’s
homepage. The new site is turnkey, usable on all devices, simple, and clear.

“For us, the website needs to be able to provide the best level of service to
our members and help them find whatever tools they're looking for as simply as
possible.'' Carly Ferry, Senior Manager, Digital Content, American Academy of
Neurology.

The AAN set the benchmark internally to make sure it had been successful. Part
of that was usability of service which was tested prior to and after the site
transition. It received a lot of feedback from members. Most of this feedback
was positive; if any was constructive, the AAN were able to take that feedback
and make those changes.

The biggest indicator of success was the number of people who actually logged on
to the website. Optimizely is engineered to handle high volumes of simultaneous
logins. To be able to personalize content to its members, the association needed
them to log in. If they were logged out, there was no way of telling who they
were. The AAN set a goal to get 60% of its US neurologists to log in and ended
up getting 80% of its US neurologists logged into the site in one year.

Its website traffic went up since the redesign, and now that the website is
fully mobile responsive the association has also seen a 20% increase in mobile
traffic.

Optimizely has spurred the AAN’s innovation. By using A/B testing from
Optimizely and testing further personalization techniques, the AAN continues
their digital maturity—well ahead of their industry counterparts.

Opting for Optimizely has heightened the standard for other AAN vendors in other
areas of their work. The expectation is that they, too, will have excellent
customer service, innovative features, and a trusted understanding of their
membership base.

#### Industry

Education

#### Product used

- Content Management System
