# Amerhart makes a paradigm shift with B2B Commerce

## Inspiring Americans to Chase Their Dreams Since 1940

A white picket fence surrounding a 3-story house, a beautiful car and a high
paying job. Every individual has a different version of their American dream.
Over time, those dreams evolve.

Amerhart, a Midwest distributor of lumber and building materials, has been
committed to working with people and communities to attain their American dreams
since 1940 – whether that’s a new home, a deck or a complete kitchen remodel.

Just as dreams evolve, so too does technology. For a company that’s been in
business for 75 years, it would be easy to fall back on doing business the way
they’ve always done it. But that’s not the culture Amerhart has built. They’re
shifting their business to account for advanced technology and evolving customer
expectations. Amerhart is making a paradigm shift.

## A commitment to change and service beyond the order

Amerhart is laser-focused on improving the lives of customers, employees and
communities. Their promise goes Beyond the Order. Their service model is focused
on providing a superior customer experience, from before an order is placed to
after delivery occurs.

However, leadership at Amerhart has an understanding of the changing landscape.
Customer expectations are evolving. The workforce is getting younger. More and
more, people prefer to transact electronically when they can. Sales
representatives are itching for more productive tools to do their jobs. That’s
why Amerhart isn’t afraid of change.

Engrained in Amerhart’s culture is the idea of “bleeding [Amerhart] green.”
Employees are willing to do whatever is in the best interests of Amerhart, but
change still takes time. Over the last year and a half, Amerhart has introduced
a lot of technology. They’ve deployed an Intranet, increased the use of
collaboration tools to enhance communication across 10 branch locations, and
transformed Amerhart.com from a static website to a dynamic online store focused
on delivering the best possible user experience.

It speaks volumes about the culture at Amerhart. People are loyal. They’re all
committed to the same end goal. They want to deliver the best possible
experience for their customers. They want the company to be profitable,
sustainable and forward-thinking.

Amerhart first launched its ecommerce journey by deploying an online system
built on a legacy platform provided by their ERP vendor. While the platform
provided a tactical solution, it didn’t fully address the broader strategic
goals the company had for ecommerce, and it could not provide the experiences
customers expected. Product descriptions, searchability, account accessibility
and personalization capabilities were just some of the limitations Amerhart
sought to overcome.

While maintaining the personalized level of services its long-time customers
valued, Amerhart noticed that younger buyers who were entering the workplace
wanted a more consumer-like feel when placing their orders electronically.
Amerhart knew it was time to reinvest and build something better. Led by CEO,
Mark Kasper, they composed a team of ecommerce decision-makers including VP of
IT, Rick Johnson, VP of Finance, Chad Warpinski and Director of IT Services,
Nate Wotruba.

The team knew they needed a platform that would offer them fully functional
ecommerce capabilities.

## The hunt for the right B2B ecommerce platform

Amerhart wanted an ecommerce provider that was nimble and agile - a company that
would put Amerhart first and listen to them for product feedback. Amerhart also
knew that there was an important distinction between B2B and B2C ecommerce. They
looked into platforms that were more B2C friendly like Magento, but trusted that
they needed a B2B-based platform.

Amerhart searched for a platform that could accommodate the complexities of B2B,
including capabilities for search, cart and checkout, integration to their PIM,
inRiver and integration to their ERP, to name a few.

Gaining control of their product information was another important aspect of the
ecommerce journey for Amerhart. Integrating the PIM with the ecommerce platform
enables rich product information like product attributes to seamlessly flow to
the site.

Amerhart’s site built on Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud would enable customers to
easily self-serve, increase the team’s efficiencies, and help Amerhart deliver
the unique and personalized content experiences their customers and prospects
expected.

## A paradigm shift improves the bottom line

Since incorporating B2B Commerce Cloud, Amerhart has made major strides. It’s
clear that Amerhart has met the mark with their online offering. Today, Amerhart
has over 4,000 registered users and aggressive goals to onboard and activate new
customers.

A survey Amerhart conducted following the release of B2B Commerce Cloud revealed
that customers were very likely to recommend amerhart.com. In fact, on a scale
of 1-10, the average likelihood to recommend the site was 8.7.

The same survey gave Amerhart some helpful insight into what customers enjoyed
about the site and what they would like to see improved.

When asked what Amerhart could do better online, one customer said, “Nothing.
You already have way more information available to me online than any other
company in the industry.”

Another customer said, “Your online ordering tools are excellent and easy to
use.”

Feedback on the site has been overwhelmingly positive. Since launching in
February 2019, Amerhart has grown exponentially month-over-month. An openness to
change and a commitment to delivering the highest quality customer service are
key factors that have made the ecommerce journey so successful.

Before implementing the new solution, order taking was labor-intensive. In the
digital world, staff are finding they have better and faster access to
meaningful information. Everyone has more time to give to making data-driven
decisions based on self-service customer events and transactions.

Amerhart is seeing a significant increase in orders and revenue from digitally
engaged customers (customers using the site). In fact, customers who are
digitally engaged are placing 30 percent more orders than those who are not
digitally engaged. The site is driving share of wallet as well, many customers
are realizing the breadth of products Amerhart has available - products they
wouldn’t have discovered previously.

## Amerhart leverages specific capabilities to further online success

Catalog Management - Today, about 62 percent of Amerhart’s product catalog is
available online. In the coming months, the team aims to build out the online
catalog to 100 percent and continue to onboard new customers.

Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud Analytics - Using Optimizely’s B2B Commerce Cloud
Analytics to measure success, the team feels it has the tools and data it needs
to drive continuous improvement and strategic growth well into the future.

List Management - Utilizing APIs, Amerhart automates the creation of product
lists for a targeted group of web users. They create up to six lists for each
web user. Some examples of lists they are creating includes top 15 frequently
purchased items and top five categories of products. Web users who had product
lists placed twice as many orders on amerhart.com than those without product
lists.

Product Recommendations - As Amerhart heads into their next phase of their
ecommerce journey, they are exploring the potential of leveraging AI and machine
learning to deliver product recommendations on the site.

Equipped with the right technology and the right partner, abundant data and
feedback from engaged customers, and a team dedicated to innovation and
collaboration, Amerhart is identifying new and better ways to deliver Beyond the
Order so their customers and the communities they serve can continue chasing
their American dreams. And that’s something we at Optimizely can get behind.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

http://www.amerhart.com/

## In collaboration with:

XNGAGE

XNGAGE is a Digital Services firm focused on delivering Commerce Success in B2B
for leading manufacturers, distributors, and wholesalers.
