# American Physical Therapy Association gets new user functionality

Creating a member-centric experience across the United States. A practical guide
to building an impressive site.

## Digital Flexing

Serving over 100,000 members with a goal to promote better physical therapy, the
American Physical Therapy Association, APTA, play a vital role in the
advancement of physical health.

APTA was on a mission to create a new digital experience for its members by
implementing new user functionality and piecing together a powerful content
platform that could support their large membership base. It was down to
Optimizely’s Gold Partner, Blend Interactive, to ensure the implementation took
place successfully.

Taking existing design mocks, requirements, and technical specifications, Blend
was tasked with creating a full technical plan — essentially, a blueprint for
the Optimizely installation. They set about this through an iterative scoping
project, where requirements were spelled out a bit at a time and prioritized for
both budget and minimum viable product.

The goal was to keep surprises to a minimum by providing ongoing updates to the
overall budget and decisions that might affect that budget.

## Partnership Through a Dream Team

Blend was provided early-stage strategic direction by APTA’s agency-of-record,
but this wasn’t a case of simply following directions. The three parties were
united and engaged toward interpreting that strategic direction in a way that
worked best with APTA’s new Optimizely install. Throughout the project, Blend
provided expertise in concert with the marketing goals and editorial
expectations of APTA’s team. Wireframes were reviewed with Optimizely’s
capabilities in mind and adjusted accordingly.

## Flexibility Through Product Ownership and Iterative Training

Iterative scoping and development is more than just following a document — it
also requires an organic look at each phase. The implementation process includes
ongoing training. Rather than train in one big chunk at the end, training was
spaced in the attempt to provide all of the pieces to create specific sections
of the site instead of everything at once.

Optimizely Content Cloud provides APTA the scalability to reach more members via
a digital platform that’s inclusive to all. The platform delivers capabilities
that enables the team to monitor content performance for its audience.

Whether it's upcoming events, courses or educational content, the site serves as
an important engagement hub for the organization and its audience.

#### Industry

Education

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

https://www.apta.org/

## In collaboration with:

Blend Interactive, Inc.

Blend is a web strategy, design, and development firm based in Sioux Falls,
South Dakota, and built upon a set of strong values.
