# How AmeriPride saved 40,000 CSR hours annually

A single instance of B2B Commerce Cloud powers more than 100 AmeriPride eStores.

## At a glance

- 40,000 CSR hours saved annually
- $3M in revenue per quarter from company web store
- $10M in revenue per quarter from customer microsites

## Serving the backbone of America for nearly 130 years

Industry-leading uniform rental and linen supply company, AmeriPride, an Aramark
Company, has been in business for nearly 130 years. Based in Minnesota, U.S.,
AmeriPride prides themselves on servicing those they consider “the backbone of
the country”.

AmeriPride provides a wide variety of goods and services which means the buying
experience varies from customer-to-customer. Some uniforms need to be highly
customized, some are purchased and some are rented. Not to mention, AmeriPride
offers a range of other products including disposable gloves and floor mats.

In an old school industry, AmeriPride’s willingness to adapt and evolve to
growing needs and technologies has given them a competitive edge in the market.
They ventured into eCommerce to provide personalized experiences for their
customers.

## Leveraging Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud to support hundreds of eStores

AmeriPride is leveraging a single instance of Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud to
support hundreds of their eStores, which are catered specifically to the unique
needs of specific customers and customized with their own brand look and feel,
product catalog and pricing. In addition, larger customers are given the ability
to use their own images and configure employee-specific budgets to control
spending.

With more than 150 stores live, customers have the ability to order customer-
branded clothing, including custom embroidery and logo elements. AmeriPride’s
marketing team creates each of these sites without any additional help. In
addition, AmeriPride leverages B2B Commerce Cloud to power a customer portal,
where over 100,000 AmeriPride customers can access order history, invoices,
payments and more.

## Less hassle, more value

For many AmeriPride customers, dealing with paper invoices is an artifact of the
past. Before the introduction of Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud, customers
frequently had to produce their own orders and fax them into AmeriPride. With
ordering moved online, customers and AmeriPride’s team can spend more time and
energy on more important issues. Invoices are hosted and tracked online.

Leveraging Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud has also expedited the order renting
process. Before eCommerce, renting was a complicated process that began with
calling a location. Now renting and ordering can be done quickly and easily
online.

## Extraordinary business value

AmeriPride’s eStores allowed them to quickly establish new sales channels,
increase sales with existing customers and improve customer acquisition in new
markets.

Since launch, the company web store has contributed more than $3 million in
revenue each quarter. Microsites contribute more than $10 million in revenue per
quarter. AmeriPride estimates that the customer portal is saving customer
service representatives more than 40,000 hours of work annually.

AmeriPride believes that their integration of Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud has
put their company in a better position to maintain long-term success. Going
forward, AmeriPride wants to continue being ahead of the industry, despite being
one of the oldest businesses.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

http://www.ameripride.com/
