## \*\*Transforming cybersecurity: Aura's partnership with Optimizely maximizes

testing impact, collaboration and innovation\*\*

Learn how Optimizely empowers Aura to accelerate testing velocity and drive
cybersecurity innovation through comprehensive Web and Feature Experimentation
testing

## At a glance

- Aura harness Optimizely's Web Experimentation platform for conducting comprehensive tests on their front-end website. This tool enables them to efficiently test various elements to optimize user experience and drive conversions. By segmenting audiences and conducting A/B testing, multi-armed bandit testing, and personalization, Aura maximizes the effectiveness of their experiments to achieve targeted outcomes.
- Optimizely's Feature Experimentation is instrumental for Aura in testing functionalities and features on their backend and app. This robust platform empowers them to run a wide range of tests simultaneously, ensuring thorough evaluation and optimization of their cybersecurity platform. With Optimizely's suite of tools, Aura can maintain a seamless and secure digital environment for their users while continuously improving and innovating their services.
- The experimentation collaboration feature plays a pivotal role in Aura's testing process, facilitating effective communication and coordination among team members across different geographical locations and functional areas. This feature streamlines communication channels, allowing developers, designers, marketers, and stakeholders to collaborate seamlessly. As a result, Aura's testing velocity has significantly increased, with the team now able to execute more tests per month, driving continuous improvement and innovation within the organization.
- Aura have achieved a current average order value lift of approximately 15%. Furthermore, the company's testing velocity has surged from two to three tests per month to five to seven tests per month, indicating a marked improvement in experimentation efficiency and innovation.

## **Background**

Aura is an all-in-one cybersecurity platform providing comprehensive protection
against identity theft, credit monitoring, parental controls, and antivirus
solutions, ensuring users remain secure across all facets of their digital
lives.

Aura operates in the competitive cybersecurity landscape, where staying ahead of
evolving threats and meeting diverse user needs are paramount. However,
achieving these goals requires rigorous testing across various fronts, including
the front-end marketing site, backend functionalities, and app features.

Moreover, as a distributed team with members spanning different geographical
locations and time zones, effective collaboration posed a significant challenge
for Aura. Ashley Anderson, Conversion Rate Optimization Manager at Aura,
spearheads the company's efforts to enhance their cybersecurity platform through
strategic experimentation. **Solution**

Recognizing the need for a robust experimentation platform, Aura turned to
Optimizely. Leveraging Optimizely's Web Experimentation product, Aura conducted
comprehensive tests on their front-end website. This included analyzing elements
such as layout, messaging, and design to optimize user experience and drive
conversions. The platform's capabilities allowed Aura to segment audiences,
conduct AB testing, multi-band testing, and implement personalized experiences
tailored to different user segments.

Simultaneously, Aura utilize Optimizely's Feature Experimentation platform for
testing functionalities and features on their backend and app. This encompasses
evaluating the effectiveness of various cybersecurity measures, ensuring
thorough evaluation and optimization of their platform's security protocols.

To streamline collaboration across teams, Optimizely's experimentation
collaboration feature played a pivotal role. This feature facilitated seamless
communication and coordination among developers, designers, marketers, and
stakeholders. By centralizing communication channels and providing real-time
insights, Aura was able to enhance collaboration efficiency and ensure alignment
across distributed teams.

Through experimentation and collaboration, we streamlined communication across
teams, consolidating processes and eliminating unnecessary back-and-forth. This
centralized approach has significantly boosted our testing velocity, enabling us
to execute more tests per month and drive greater efficiency in our optimization
efforts.

Ashley Anderson

Conversion Rate Optimization Manager

**Benefits**

Optimizely's collaboration feature allowed Aura's distributed team to
communicate effectively, irrespective of geographical barriers. This led to
improved coordination, increased transparency, and enhanced teamwork, ultimately
driving better outcomes in experimentation efforts.

With Optimizely's suite of experimentation tools, Aura gained access to advanced
testing capabilities, empowering them to conduct a wide range of tests to
optimize user experiences and drive conversions. From AB testing to multi-band
testing and personalized experiences, Aura could tailor their experimentation
approach to suit diverse user needs and preferences.By deriving actionable
insights from experimentation results, Aura could make informed decisions
aligned with their business goals. The wealth of data provided by Optimizely
enabled Aura to identify trends, iterate on strategies, and continuously enhance
their cybersecurity solutions to meet evolving user demands.

Optimizely provides Aura with invaluable benefits, particularly through its
collaboration feature, enabling seamless teamwork across global teams, and its
robust web experimentation capabilities, empowering us to optimize testing
velocity and drive impactful results,

Ashley Anderson

Conversion Rate Optimization Manager

**Results**

The implementation of Optimizely's experimentation platform yielded tangible
results for Aura. Notably, Aura observed a significant increase in average order
value (AOV) through experimentation, with the current AOV lift reaching
approximately 15%. Furthermore, the company's testing velocity surged from two
to three tests per month to five to seven tests per month, indicating a marked
improvement in experimentation efficiency and innovation.**Future Plans**

Looking ahead, Aura remains committed to leveraging Optimizely's capabilities to
further enhance their cybersecurity solutions. They plan to delve deeper into
personalization tests, aiming to tailor user experiences more precisely to
individual preferences and behaviors. Additionally, Aura seeks to increase
testing velocity by incorporating multi-arm bandits, with the goal of conducting
10 to 15 tests per month. These initiatives underscore Aura's dedication to
continuous improvement and innovation in the cybersecurity domain.**Conclusion**

Optimizely's comprehensive suite of experimentation tools has empowered Aura to
optimize their cybersecurity solutions effectively. By fostering collaboration,
enabling advanced testing capabilities, and facilitating data-driven decision-
making, Aura continues to drive innovation and enhance user experiences in the
cybersecurity domain.

As they embark on their journey of continuous improvement, Aura remains
confident in Optimizely's ability to support their experimentation efforts and
drive meaningful business outcomes.

#### Industry

Tech

#### Products used

- Web Experimentation
- Feature Experimentation
