# Bank of Cyprus goes from physical to digital

Converting an entire populations everyday banking activities from physical to
digital. Bank of Cyprus describe their mission to transition their customers
during COVID.

## Shifting customers from physical to digital

Bank of Cyprus is the oldest and most recognizable banking institution in
Cyprus, providing a wide range of financial products and services mainly for
personal customers, but also for large corporates, international customers as
well as wealth banking & investments. The Bank operates through a total of 98
branches in Cyprus.

With a history spanning over 120 years, the Bank has been keen on spearheading
the digital banking revolution for its customers, focusing heavily on delivering
digital transformation by adapting to changing customer behaviour.

_**“We’re moving towards digital transformation and digital channels. Our aim is
to have our customers doing their banking online instead of visiting physical
branches”.**_ Christos Theodoulou, Senior Digital Officer, Bank of Cyprus

People are working from home, so banking should also be offered off branches and
from other digital points. We need to achieve personalization, and we have the
tool in Optimizely.

Christos Theodoulou

Senior Digital Officer, Bank of Cyprus

## Creating a new digital business model

Companies in the financial sector face challenges that increasingly require
digital solutions. These challenges include:

• Declining branch traffic while consumer expectations are on the rise.• Surging
competition from non-traditional players like Amazon, Google etc.• Rising
regulatory pressures that are compressing margins.Bank of Cyprus recognizes that
its competitive edge depends on providing successfully innovative and
competitive consumer technology. Also the Bank realizes that it needs to invest
in its own digital transformation in banking - that is, equip its employees with
the best tech and tools needed to do their job in the best possible way.

In order to meet consumer demands and match today’s pace of innovation, the Bank
is looking to implement digital transformation in an effort to keep company
competitive, albeit at varying speeds.

The Bank has embraced the digital age of banking with Optimizely enabled online
platform. Digitalizing interactions with customers comprises of sharing
relevant, detailed information about its products and services to the numerous
customer segments it serves.

The mission of paving the way for online banking comes with challenges that the
Bank is masterfully navigating. To sway customers away from physical branches,
the Bank has introduced lower rates and free-of-charge product offers only
accessible online.

_**“We are upgrading our Corporate Website to offer visitors an enhanced
experience (user-friendly, visually compelling website). We also aim in
providing customers with all the necessary information about our products and
services in a clear and simple way”.**_ Christos Theodoulou, Senior Digital
Officer, Bank of Cyprus

Architecting a purpose-driven siteBank of Cyprus organizes its site in a smart
way, through a content hierarchy based on page template types. This design helps
eliminate pages that are not of value and reduces content duplication. As a
result, this ensures a smoother experience for customers as there’s no need to
seek through heaps of pages for specific information.This architecture also
supports the Bank’s customer acquisition techniques. The Bank is attracting
younger demographics who view digital banking as standard and are more
accustomed to digital lifestyle tools.Without ignoring traditional routes to
market and those who are not digitally savvy, the Bank employs campaigns to
promote digital channels including digital payments. The team is on a journey to
provide relatable experience for each individual visitor, avoiding generic
content, and helping serve the right information to the right segment of
people.In the future, Bank of Cyprus will focus its website on personalization
including getting to grips with understanding customer user profiles more in-
depthly.

**“Through the website we want to safeguard the new philosophy of the Bank”.**
Christos Theodoulou, Senior Digital Officer, Bank of Cyprus

#### Industry

Financial services

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

http://www.bankofcyprus.com/
