# Barncancerfonden relies on Optimizely CMS for its annual gala and year-round

fundraising activities

## At a glance

- Efficient, secure and future-proof systems
- Stability maintained during a tenfold surge in donations during annual charity gala
- Consistent client satisfaction ratings averaging 4.6/5.0
- Ability to scale up as needed for gala and other major events

## **About Barncancerfonden**

Barncancerfonden is a Swedish not-for-profit charity organization, the ultimate
goal of which is to eradicate childhood cancer. Barncancerfonden’s stated
mission is to save as many children’s lives as possible and give everyone who is
touched by childhood cancer the best life that they can have. That applies to
the child, but also to their friends and loved ones

Barncancerfonden sets out to achieve this by operating various fundraising
activities to raise money for cancer research and also to directly help both
families and hospital staff through what is always a difficult and costly
process. Barncancerfonden raises approximately SEK 420 million (around €36
million) every year and strives to influence politicians and people in power to
make the responsible decisions that will help children and families have a
bright future.

Barncancerfonden launched more than 40 years ago, and Head of IT Martin Bergseth
notes that the amount of fundraising that takes place online has increased
consistently over the past decade. Since 2015, Barncancerfonden has worked
alongside development partner Authority to host its website utilizing
Optimizely’s Content Management System (CMS).**Gala night is the highlight of
the year**

For years, Barncancergalan, the annual Child Cancer Gala, has been
Barncancerfonden’s single largest fundraising event and the highlight of the
year. The gala is broadcast on TV and live-streamed online, and viewers are
encouraged to donate to support the worthy cause.

As Martin explained, all Barncancergalan donations are channeled through the
Barncancerfonden website. Due to the increase in viewership and attention the
gala provides, there an urgent need to boost site performance far beyond normal
day-to-day levels. The gala itself is a two-hour event and Martin estimated that
in those two hours, the website experiences approximately the same amount of
traffic as it ordinarily sees in a week. These visitors are not passive
customers but people who are eager to make a donation.

**Working together to make Barncancergalan a success**

Martin detailed that Barncancerfonden’s donations system had previously to cope
with the sudden spike in donations during the gala. Inevitably, this problem
grew until it reached crisis point when the website servers almost crashed
entirely.

In 2017, with Authority’s support, Barncancerfonden implemented this cloud
solution to increase capacity both during the gala, and in the weeks around it.
Optimizely and Authority have come together to deliver a fast and reliable
experience for all users viewing the charity’s site, as well as making sure
Barncancerfonden’s backend is up to the task of processing all donations that
are transacted simultaneously.

Since 2018, Barncancerfonden has had no issues whatsoever in dealing with the
spike in demand when Barncancergalan takes place Martin says they scale up as
necessary from two to as many as 10 servers as demand dictates.**Why
Optimizely?**

When Authority stepped in as a development partner with Barncancerfonden,
Optimizely’s CMS was being utilized by a previous partner. After assessing
Barncancerfonden’s business needs and objectives, Authority decided that
Barncancerfonden’s best course of action was to continue using Optimizely’s CMS.

Dimitris, Senior Program Manager at Authority, acknowledged that other content
management solutions were considered but stated that moving outside the
Optimizely ecosystem was never given any serious consideration. Developers
within both Authority and Barncancerfonden were familiar with Optimizely and the
solution had consistently delivered since its implementation, so there was no
driver or appetite for change.

Dimitris added that the editors at Barncancerfonden were accustomed to
Optimizely’s intuitive and easy-to-use CMS. Optimizely’s CMS additional
functionality by way of add-ons has proved extremely useful for
Barncancerfonden. The **Search and Navigation** feature, allows Barncancerfonden
to base search functionality on visitor search behavior and website statistics
and guided search to increase website traffic. The **Authoring and Layout**
feature, which is used frequently by the Barncancerfonden team, allows content
creators and editors to easily create functional web pages using Optimizely’s
drag and drop functionality.

Dimitris also mentioned that the Language and Localization prompts have also
proved very useful. He remarked: “In code level, we actually always think on the
basis that everything is going to be localized and then introduced in different
languages.” Although most of the website is currently displayed in Swedish,
vital areas such as the donation flow, have been translated to English.

The website is our most important channel when it comes to getting donations to
Barncancerfonden so we’re really depending on Authority as a partner to help us.
Optimizely’s CMS helps to bring a smooth, good experience to our donors on the
web. The gala serves as a perfect use case where our partnership truly shines.

Martin Bergseth

Head of IT

## **Stability and security are watchwords**

Martin and Dimitris agreed that high volume of traffic on the website combined
with the numerous integrations with critical data mean that ensuring stability
and security is paramount. Barncancerfonden store a large amount of personal
data in Salesforce which integrates with the Optimizely hosted website. The
website also integrates with Klarna, a direct payment provider.

Martin acknowledged that keeping Barncancerfonden’s website “efficient, secure,
and future proof” is critical for the company’s success and is something that
would be a lot harder to achieve without the security that Optimizely’s CMS
provides.

Dimitris added that Authority support Barncancerfonden’s security efforts by
regularly examining application insights to identify performance issues or
security concerns that need to be addressed. Dimitris explained that
“additionally, we conduct load tests prior to important events to ensure optimal
performance. We make use of a logging system to monitor and maintain the
security and stability of our platform.”**Streamlining Content Management**

Martin commented that Optimizely’s CMS has dramatically improved content
creation at Barncancerfonden. He says that content for the website comes in from
diverse directions every day, including researchers, the marketing team, the
communications department and so on. All have their words to share and messages
to get across, and doing so without delay is a vital ingredient for consistent
fundraising success.**Positive Customer Feedback**

Barncancerfonden’s users are always asked to rate their experience on the
website. They are quizzed on such aspects as the ease of making a donation and
ease of access to relevant information. This feedback is something Martin’s team
tracks over time to gauge performance and optimize the website.

In general, Martin has found the feedback to be “overwhelmingly positive.” He
says that on a scale of one to five, the average score for questions like the
ease of making a donation or satisfaction with the website is around 4.6. With
customer satisfaction so high, Barncancerfonden’s internal teams can focus on
improving the customer experience rather than problem solving.

Martin remarked: “It's great that our customers are highly satisfied with the
services we provide. This level of satisfaction indicates that our services are
running smoothly and efficiently. As a result, our focus can be directed towards
making incremental tweaks and improvements each year, rather than dealing with
major issues or putting out fires.”**Looking ahead**

Right now, Barncancerfonden is in the process of upgrading to Optimizely CMS 12,
with the aim of achieving a website experience that is even faster and smoother
for its users. But before long, all thoughts will turn to the 2023 Children’s
Gala at the end of September.

After the gala, Barncancerfonden will be launching a large Christmas campaign.
This will kick off in October and will cover a range of Christmas-related
activities, mostly on the website. There will also be a whole new range of
seasonal products in the Christmas gift shop, targeting companies and
businesses. Martin explains that this year, Barncancerfonden will be focusing
particularly hard on encouraging companies to purchase business during the
holiday season.

Looking further ahead to 2024, Barncancerfonden also plan to redesign their
website in an attempt to refresh its branding and revamp the donation flow to
create a seamless experience for its users.

Barncancerfonden does amazing work for a wonderful cause. Optimizely is proud to
play its part as a trusted partner along with Authority and looks forward to
continuing to do so in the months and years to come.

#### Industry

Education

#### Product used

- Content Management System
