# How Behler-Young became a digital leader in their market

By prioritizing the customer experience with B2B Commerce Cloud, Behler-Young is
positioned as a digital leader in their market and beyond

## Celebrating a legacy by building an even stronger future

When your business survives the depression and World War II, you know you’re
doing something right. In 1926, lifelong friends, John E. Behler and Wayne H.
Young founded a HVAC/R wholesale distribution business that did just that.

Three generations later, Behler-Young has continued a commitment to the ethics,
quality, excellence and teamwork that have characterized the company since its
inception. Today, Behler-Young represents hundreds of manufacturers and serves
thousands of customers throughout Michigan and Northwest Ohio with 18 branches
and a 140,000 square foot distribution center in Kensington Park, Michigan.

Behler-Young strives to be the highest value provider of HVAC/R products and
services in its market. To do this, the company centers its attention on its
customers, promising the highest quality service possible. In its 90 year
history, Behler-Young’s missions and values haven’t changed, but technology and
customer expectations have.

We were not looking to conform to a rigid eCommerce box. The Optimizely B2B
Commerce solution can be customized for our needs.

Kari Schellie

Senior Marketing Manager , Behler Young

## Pushing the envelope of digital transformation

Within the HVAC/R industry, companies are fairly traditional and often view
eCommerce as an unnecessary or even burdensome change. But Behler-Young is no
stranger to breaking out of stagnation. Though there were not a lot of lookalike
distribution companies to reference as it underwent digital transformation,
Behler-Young took the initiative and ventured into eCommerce.

Given its limited footprint, generating leads and new business was a challenge
for Behler-Young, but the main priority for digital transformation was always
about making it easier for Behler-Young customers to do their jobs.

## From a limited experience to a fully integrated, seamless one

When Behler-Young initially launched its eCommerce journey, the company utilized
Infor Storefront for basic eCommerce, Billtrust for invoicing, a separate
content marketing site and a mobile application. But none of the tools were
integrated which caused customer friction instead of customer enablement. As a
result, customers weren’t adopting digital.

Traditionally, customers called to pay their invoices or check their order
status, which limited Behler-Young’s team and prevented its customers from being
self-sufficient. Behler-Young wanted to give their customers the tools to be
able to service themselves online.

Behler-Young envisioned a world where customers could pay their invoices, view
their history and place their orders all in the same space. A seamless user
experience – not a disjointed one. Just as John and Wayne had a vision when they
launched the company, Behler-Young’s digital marketing team had a vision for an
even stronger future.

## Executing a vision for a stronger future

Behler-Young wanted a solution that would merge the digital experiences
together, while better enabling its customers to do business with the company.

In addition, the new solution would need to integrate with the Infor A+ ERP to
reflect all the processes onto the site. If the solution couldn’t do that, the
rest of the technology wouldn’t have mattered.

Behler-Young also recognized the importance of features like search, account
information, marketing and promotions when they set out to find the right
solution for the business.

Behler-Young found their solution in Optimizely’s B2B Commerce Cloud.

## The new world with Optimizely

Today, a Behler-Young customer can order products, create lists, cross reference
their order history with their invoices and register for training in the same
place.

Cross-functional interaction between the technology systems is finally a
reality. Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud easily integrated with all of Behler-
Young’s tools.

Behler-Young is working with its customers to continuously grow and improve
their site. The company has set aggressive goals to increase sales and gross
profit.

Optimizely is proud to partner with a company that is future-proofing its
business. It’s clear that the team at Behler-Young recognizes its strong roots
that were planted over 90 years ago, and knows how to innovate and transform, so
they may serve its customers for the next 90 years.

That’s a heritage to celebrate.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

http://behler-young.com/
