# Bendigo and Adelaide Bank

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank feeds into the prosperity of customers, and is
supported by Optimizely.

## At a glance

- 500 locations
- 160 years of history
- 11 websites built on Optimizely

## Feeding into prosperity

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank is one of Australia's biggest banks. The Bank supports
more than 1.9 million customers in over 500 locations Australia-wide offering
financial products including savings accounts, credit cards, loans, and
insurance.

The Bank’s determined commitment to customers and their communities dates back
more than 160 years and has differentiated it amongst other banking
alternatives.

Each one of the communities its serves has its own unique needs and priorities.
As a retail bank supporting families and businesses across Australia, Bendigo
and Adelaide Bank strives to make each community prosper.

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank was eager to provide a digital-first environment for
its customers that would set the Bank apart from competitors and make for a
better banking experience.

Our partnership with Optimizely directly supports our vision to be Australia’s
Bank of choice by investing in our capability, reducing complexity and
importantly, telling our story. The platform enables us to more effectively
communicate and engage with our customers

Kellie Marasco

Digital Product Manager, Bendigo and Adelaide Bank

## Investing in capability

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank embarked to replace its legacy content management
system with a superior digital experience platform that would evolve its online
presence in-line with the new brand for its retail arm, Bendigo Bank brand. The
Bank was keen to reduce its backend operational complexity that had prevented it
from realising its full digital potential.Modern APIs shared with other
services/systems within the Bank’s digital ecosystem were imperative to a
successful digital estate along with an in-built personalization and customer
insights engine. The Bank undertook a stringent discovery exercise to evaluate
the market.

## Delivering marketing leading customer experiences

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank selected Optimizely’s Content Cloud as its new DXP.
The best-in-class CMS enables the team to produce customer-centric experiences
for each online visitor. The first eight websites of the Bank’s digital estate
were live on Optimizely in just 9-months demonstrating a rapid launch to market
of this type and scale. Taking advantage of Optimizely’s all-in-one platform,
Bendigo and Adelaide Bank now has a single instance to easily share and reuse
content between all sites, removing previous inefficiencies. The Optimizely
cloud platform adheres to ISO 027001 – as well as other security protocols that
needed to be satisfied. The refresh, contemporary style now matches its modern
banking capability and supports it commitment to delivering an excellent
experience for its customers. The website design complements the product range
and reflects the forward-thinking direction the Bank is taking.

## Setting the trends: Supporting its customer-centric approach

With a vision to be Australia’s bank of choice, Bendigo and Adelaide Bank wanted
to ensure its website experience could support is strategic imperatives to
reduce complexity and invest in capability. The new digital experience platform
enables those who operate it a host of new capabilities to quickly create new
pages and learn about their visitors. The team use centralised templates to
enable rapid delivery across its digital estate of now 11 websites. The Bank
noted how easy it is to get to grips with the interface.

According to Cale Maxwell, the COO of LEVO, a key partner on the project, the
capability of Optimizely made the transformation possible. We were able to
significantly improve the way the bank managed its content, in turn creating a
richer customer experience.

## Community support

In January 2020, the Victorian Government partnered with Bendigo Bank and The
Salvation Army to establish Victorian Bushfire Appeal, with 100% of donated
funds going directly to communities in need. The appeal was conducted by the
Bank’s charitable arm, Community Enterprise Foundation™ which is a site hosted
on Optimizely. The appeal raised more than $46 million from 145,000 generous
donors to help those impacted by the devastating Black Summer bushfires. In the
first two weeks of 2020, the Community Enterprise Foundation™ website
experienced more than a 45,000% increase in people visiting the website to
donate. The website automatically scaled up when the additional capacity was
needed as it sits on the Optimizely cloud infrastructure powered by Microsoft
Azure.

#### Customer's website

https://www.bendigobank.com.au/

## In collaboration with:

Levo Digital Pty Ltd

LEVO is the missing link.
