# Bidwells revamp digital experience to quadruple leads generated and double

customer sessions

Learn how Bidwells utilized Optimizely's DXP suite to transform their digital
offering and become an award winning online experience

## At a glance

- 95.72% increase in new users on Homes website
- 93% increase in customer sessions
- Increased number of leads for the estate business – 300% increase in leads from Feb ’20 to Feb ‘22
- Improved lead quality for the estate business

## Bidwells’ diverse expertise in the property consultancy space

Founded in 1839, Bidwells has an extremely rich history as a leading property
consultancy based in the U.K. Bidwells is a 500-strong team, with teams in
England and Scotland, that manages £5.2bn in property assets for investors
across North America, the Middle East, Asia Pacific, and Europe. The company
manages a staggering 1 million acres of residential and commercial countryside,
rural land, and coastlines in England and Scotland, providing advice and
expertise to its clients centred around maximising opportunities in forestry,
renewables, and the sustainable environment sectors. Bidwells has a significant
presence in the Oxford-Cambridge Arc (a high-growth economic area that supports
2 million jobs and adds £110 billion to the UK’s GDP) and has grown to become
the largest property consultancy in the Arc region. Bidwells also acts as a
consultant to the government on developments and investments in the Arc region.
The company’s areas of expertise are science and technology, Oxford and
Cambridge colleges, land and estate, development, sustainability and
investment.Due to its multidisciplinary nature, Bidwells works with its 130+
partners to serve a variety of client types including developers, investors,
landowners and homebuyers.

## Bidwells revamp online digital experience to reflect energetic company

culture

Bidwells wanted a website that accurately represented its fun, energetic and
passionate culture whilst providing its clients with a clear user journey based
on company type and easy-to-digest editorial content and advice. However,
Bidwells’ website redesign not only reflected a cosmetic facelift; it
represented a Herculean internal cross-collaborative effort with the overarching
goal of a complete redesign of the company’s business and service offers.Digital
Marketing Manager at Bidwells, Chelsea Jarvis, shared that its old website tried
to cater to all customers on one single website. This resulted in diluted
messaging that focused more on describing Bidwells’ own services and internal
structures than its clients’ needs. It was pivotal that any new website clearly
spoke a language that its customers could understand while reflecting Bidwells
and its partners’ passion for their work. With its wide and varied consultancy
offering, Bidwells aimed to ensure that its online digital experience clearly
emphasised its service and value proposition to prospective customers and
highlighted success stories with its partners.One of the biggest pushes for
Bidwells’ digital transformation was the lack of visibility on its site visitors
and how users interacted with its website. On Bidwell’s previous website, the
team had been using Google Analytics, which had helped them to capture basic
data and information about its users.However, Jarvis shared that the ideal
Bidwells website would provide a personalized digital customer experience and
flexibility to make swift edits.In addition, Bidwells wanted a website that was
extremely secure, not susceptible to security breaches and integrated well with
internal systems that housed information like customer data and internal
property portals.

## Building a customer-centric digital solution

The Bidwells team set out to look for its ideal digital solutions provider and
narrowed it down to Adobe and Optimizely.Bidwells held numerous meetings to
evaluate its options. The team wanted to run more data-driven campaigns with its
website and realized Optimizely’s Digital Experience Platform best fit their
needs and requirements. Jarvis shared that the Optimizely team’s dedication to
understanding Bidwells’ business needs sealed the deal for the Bidwells team.

The first order of business for Bidwells was to secure its website. The Bidwells
team achieved this with Optimizely’s partnership with Cloudflare, ensuring the
reliability and security of its external-facing and internal resources. To
tackle its diluted messaging, the Bidwells team leveraged Optimizely’s Visitor
Groups to target website content to selected user groups. Bidwells customized
its criteria for different persona groups and leveraged the geographic location
function to personalize for its Scottish market. Unexpectedly, Bidwells
discovered the potential of Optimizely Recommendations’ customer-first
capabilities in improving business operations. It decided to change its service
offer to coincide with the launch of its website. The change meant Bidwells’
messaging and content spoke directly to the needs of customers instead of
focusing on its expertise. Once its website’s foundation was laid out, the
Bidwells team utilized the Optimizely Data Platform to harmonize customer data
from different sources for a holistic view that guided their data-driven
campaigns.Bidwells selected Optimizely partner Novaspark to help with the
implementation of Optimizely’s CMS and back-end integrations needed to make the
website revamp a success. Novaspark’s team, led by CTO Stuart Toller, was
critical to Bidwell’s success, providing knowledge, guidance and support to the
Bidwells organization. The strong partnership built between Novaspark and
Bidwells allowed for continuous progress during the difficult COVID-19 period
where communication and consensus on important decisions had to be executed
remotely.Toller shared that Optimizely’s Multisite capability helped ease
Bidwells’ site creation workflow. The Bidwells team can quickly duplicate sites
and easily edit based on individual site objectives. Bidwells now has three
websites on the same code base hosted on the same platform, making integrations
easier than ever. One of the three websites is Bidwells’ land and estate
website. As these customers are highly distinctive, it was of utmost importance
to have a designated view of the site’s traffic and audiences in one place while
ensuring the messaging is tailored to them. Bidwells overcame the challenge of
appealing to both B2B and B2C users by ensuring the content and navigation was
tailored to their needs. Novaspark helped Bidwells implement the necessary
integrations to ensure that their Optimizely CMS neatly integrated with their
other back-end platforms. Some integrations included Netsuite and Cascade as
well as other finance, supply chain management, HR, and location-related
integrations. From a developer’s standpoint, Toller shared that Optimizely’s
user-friendly interface made it easy for him and fellow developers to get work
done.

Companies like us that have multiple campaigns happening concurrently run the
risk of diluting the brand and messaging. By using Optimizely’s Visitor Groups
and Recommendations, we can negate that risk.

Chelsea Jarvis

Digital Marketing Manager, Bidwells

## Bidwells’ successful bid at its digital transformation

Whether it’s to nurture existing clients or win new clients, Bidwells reaped the
benefits of delivering personalized customer experience to different customer
groups with Optimizely. Despite varying concurrent campaigns, Bidwells
successfully delivered tailored content through a logical user journey without
confusing site visitors. By providing a unique digital customer experience to
its residential estate customers, the team achieved its valuation leads goals by
increasing the number of leads while improving lead quality.The value of
Bidwells’ new and improved digital experience was not only recognized by its
customers. In 2022, Bidwells’ website won the Best New Website category at the
Property Marketing Awards for their website.

## Developing Bidwells’ digital estate to further business goals

Bidwells has plans to increase its £50m business to £70m by 2026. To achieve
this ambitious goal, Jarvis shared that the team plans to keep a finger on the
pulse of the ever-evolving MarTech space to further Bidwells’ digital
transformation. With support and guidance from trusted partner Novaspark,
Bidwells aims to maintain its premiere digital customer experience by continuing
to enhance its website. Optimizely’s AI-powered Recommendations will play a
critical role in Bidwells’ 2023 digital strategy to improve site engagement
through better content suggestions. The Bidwells team will also highlight its
capability to build needs-specific sites for its developers using Optimizely’s
Multisite capability. This value-added service will give them an edge over their
competitors.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Products used

- Content Management System
- Data Platform
- Recommendations
