# Bisnode use the broad capacity of our DXP to launch 18 sites

## A solution needed to meet a critical mission

Bisnode, now a Dun & Bradstreet company, is a leading global provider of
mission-critical data and insights to help clients compete, grow and thrive. The
organization helps companies find and manage customers through the entire
customer lifecycle, matching and analyzing their data with its data and the data
that today's connected world generates, so-called Big Data. Bisnode’s experts
work daily to interpret, refine and understand all the data that forms the basis
of its clients' business decisions, enabling them to increase revenue and
minimize losses in a structured and reliable way.

Bisnode was once 280 companies before all its brands came under one umbrella
back in 2014. With its new business strategy in place, it sought a software
development partner to deliver sites that reflected its new direction. The
business wanted to: Synchronize 17 sites onto the same Optimizely CMS and align
economies of scale when it comes to web management, develop a web solution that
supports brand consistency across its markets allowing local adaptations of
available services and build sites that drive thought leadership and sales. The
website platform required integrations with other third-party systems, which
presented the risks of adaptability and compatibility.

Niteco is an Optimizely preferred vendor which has many experts in their
management team and architect team. Niteco’s concept of having one person here
and a team in Hanoi is cost effective. We have very transparent dialogues and
we’ve built a lot of trust between us and Niteco

Daniel Nyberg

Marketing Technologist , Bisnode

## A trusted partner to deliver greatness

With the help of Optimizely partner Niteco's technical experts, Bisnode was able
to launch 18 different websites, with common core but each with local variation
was built. Each Bisnode country got a localised site, translated and adapted
from the original one to maintain consistency. The web solution also used
Optimizely Forms for admins to make new forms by reusing existing content
blocks, Instant templates to quickly produce complex content with a stack of
blocks, Optimizely Find for powerful search capability and automatic creation of
targeted content, ImageVault Cloud for digital asset management, Google
Analytics and Google Tag Manager.

The project is ongoing with 19 sites to be launched in the future, including a
global site. More functionalities including CRM-Integration and Marketing
Automation are planned for the future.

#### Industry

Tech

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

http://www.bisnode.com/

## In collaboration with:

Niteco AB

Niteco is a global end-to-end digital agency that can support your digital
transformation with consultancy, marketing, design and application management
services in addition to its world-class website...
