# Burmax creates a one-stop-shop for 7,000+ products

Burmax chose Optimizely’s PIM to quickly and efficiently set up and manage its
product catalogue while centralizing all assets and marketing content in one
location.

## The challenge

Over the last 70 years, the Burmax Company has become a market leading, fully-
fledged distributor of beauty products to its customers. Historically, the
company has always been a B2B business selling direct to distributors and
salons. However, in 2021, it launched its first consumer focused website selling
directly to the professional. This pivot completely changed Burmax’s business
model.

Having two very distinct, yet different, client bases B2C and B2B, meant that
Burmax found it challenging to cater for all online. With over 7,000 products
available on its website, the business wanted to hone its digital ecommerce
experience and create a one-stop-shop for all its customers.

## The solution

Burmax chose Optimizely’s PIM to quickly and efficiently set up and manage its
product catalogue while centralizing all assets and marketing content in one
location.

The PIM functionality is a great tool for small teams looking to quickly set up
their catalogue and product data requirements and to efficiently manage the data
acquisition and curation process.

Optimizely PIM enabled the developers to access the site and make fast changes
to different elements of the site like photos or product descriptions, a huge
advantage from a product development standpoint. What’s more, the technology
allowed for the concurrent development of products from its catalogue while
designing and building other parts of the website.

Being able to manage product data and related digital assets with consistency,
provide rich and informative digital experiences for customers irrespective of
being from a B2C or B2B profile and doing this all in one place with a single
data source were all great benefits to Burmax.

## **The result**

Burmax didn't need or want to reinvent the wheel, the company just needed to
make sure that people could find what they were looking for at the time they
were looking for it and make it as easy as possible. The project has resulted in
a rich and informative digital experience for its customers.

Burmax’s future focus is around content creation and optimizing that content to
create an even richer experience for its customers in a concise and timely
manner.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Products used

- Configured Commerce
- Commerce Connect

#### Customer's website

https://www.burmax.com/
