# Caliber Home Loans uses our CMS to succeed in local markets

Caliber Home Loans is among the top 10 highest-volume mortgage lenders in
America. They wanted to replace their legacy Content Management system (CMS)
with a modern CMS which could track and generate more leads.

After evaluating various CMS players, they proceeded with the development as the
out of box features in Optimizely suited the requirement specific to CHL
including, personalization through visitor groups, custom redirection,
Optimizely Search and Navigation etc. The view was to redesign the Caliber Home
Loans website using Optimizely Content Cloud with key features like
Personalization, User Journey Tracking, multisite support other software tools
Optimizely deliver at grand scale.

## A new digital home

It was key that the new Content Management System had the ability to platform
personalized content based on each visitors user experience and individual
journey. On the editor side, it had to enable easier content editing and publish
workflow. From a commercial perspective, the new digital environment would
increase leads from site visits and minimize the number of steps for a prospect
to become a customer.

Caliber Home Loans corporate website needed a platform which could easily
identify customer intent and provide personalized content. After evaluating
various CMS like Umbraco, Sitecore and Optimizely before proceeding with the
development as the out of box features in Optimizely suit the requirement
specific to CHL like personalization through visitor group, custom redirection,
Optimizely Find etc.

The Marketing and IT teams of Caliber Home Loans decided to replace their
existing legacy CMS with a new, best-in-class CMS.After CMS requirements were
revisited and based on the CMS Requirements and Caliber Home Loans’s current IT
infrastructure, Optimizely Content Cloud was proposed as the go-to CMS
platform.Other CMS platforms were observed but Optimizely was seen as the
perfect all-inclusive platform of choice and was backed by the ability to
support efficient upgrades along with a strong content framework and innovative
search and personalization tools. The key points why Content Cloud was chosen
over the other CMS are:• Offers superior hosting and scalability.•
Personalization capabilities are AI-driven.• Easily integrates with Caliber Home
Loans’s existing solutions.• Offers a higher rate of return-on-investment (ROI).

#### Industry

Financial services

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

https://www.caliberhomeloans.com/
