# Canon EMEA develops a picture-perfect website with Optimizely’s

experimentation solution

Learn how Canon EMEA deliver an enhanced omnichannel experience to customers
with Optimizely

## The Canon brand

Founded in 1937, Canon is a leading technology company dedicated to helping
people reimagine and push the boundaries of what is possible through imaging.

Continuous innovation has kept Canon at the forefront of imaging excellence
throughout its 80-year history, enabling the company to develop industry-leading
technology to support the future demands of photographers, videographers, office
workers, professional printers, medical imaging experts and more.

## The move towards direct-to-consumer ecommerce

Canon EMEA’s traditional consumer business model was built on selling the
company’s wide range of digital cameras, lenses, printers and camcorders to its
customers through selected retail partners.

But a key part of the company’s future vision and strategy was to bring its
products and merchandise closer to consumers through an omnichannel experience —
giving its customers the option to choose how and where they wanted to purchase
a product, including directly from the Canon brand itself.

In 2015, Canon EMEA launched its very first direct-to-consumer ecommerce website
in the UK, quickly expanding the offering across 17 different markets across
Europe, Middle East and Africa.

## Optimising the digital experience

A significant part of Canon EMEA’s core digital strategy was to optimize the
digital experience of its brand-new ecommerce platform in order to attract the
right audiences and drive an increase in conversion rates. But the company
needed the ability to simultaneously experiment with different web pages across
its 17 different websites in order to achieve this goal.

Canon EMEA recognized the need for a robust experimentation and optimization
platform, which led the company to select Optimizely as its dedicated partner in
this area.

Optimizely is now being used across several of Canon EMEA’s business functions,
but predominantly by the ecommerce team. The platform is used to carry out high
velocity A/B testing across the company’s 17 different websites to understand
how different site elements perform. Using various qualitative and quantitative
research tools, the team are able to gather data and insights into the website’s
conversion rates and traffic figures.

The testing is currently being carried out across five key website areas,
including the homepage, the navigation area, product pages, and the checkout and
basket pages. The test results provide the team with statistically significant
results that improve the website’s conversion rate and other key metrics.

These changes made to the key site areas are then deployed across the full
website to all customers. Once any pain points or problems are identified, Canon
EMEA’s cross-functional in-house team — comprising of UX designers, copywriters
and conversion rate optimization leads — is able to quickly make any iterations
or create new test concepts to roll out across its web pages via the Optimizely
platform.

Optimizely is an extremely powerful, yet simple tool to use. Our team is now
empowered to constantly review and experiment with different aspects of the
customer experience. Optimizely is helping us to remove the element of guesswork
that was previously needed. This guesswork has now been replaced with data-
driven results which allow us to deliver seamless, omnichannel experiences.

Jitender Chani

e-Commerce Content & Optimization Senior Manager , Canon EMEA

## Removing the digital guesswork

Optimizely’s experimentation capabilities have enabled the team at Canon EMEA to
implement a robust experimentation programme that can run high velocity tests
simultaneously across a wide range of markets. As a result, the team can turn
these test results into actionable changes in order to deliver a seamless
omnichannel experience across each of its different markets.

Jitender Chani, Canon EMEA’s e-Commerce Content & optimization Senior Manager
explains, “Optimizely is an extremely powerful, yet simple tool to use. Through
the platform, we are now able to see which test concepts are driving the highest
conversion rates and how this metric is changing over time. Thanks to Optimizely
we are able to set up an array of different tests in little time, which run
extremely well and deliver fast results.

“Our team is now empowered to constantly review and experiment with different
aspects of the customer experience, and Optimizely is helping us to remove the
element of guesswork that was previously needed. This guesswork has now been
replaced with data-driven results which allow us to deliver seamless,
omnichannel experiences.”

While Canon EMEA is predominantly using Optimizely’s experimentation
capabilities, the company has recently expanded its partnership and is now
building out its personalization and content recommendation strategies using
Optimizely to drive even higher conversion rates and in turn, better and bigger
business outcomes.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Web Experimentation
