# New B2B platform increased Carl Ras conversion rates by 20%

## At a glance

- 35% Incremental online sales
- 10% Increased average order value
- 20% Increased conversion rate

The Carl Ras wholesale company is pursuing its digitalization strategy with a
clear vision of being the construction professional’s preferred supplier and
providing customers with a totally new online experience.

Carl Ras offers a wide range of tools, fittings, work clothes and safety
equipment to construction and industry professionals. The company operates in a
competitive market where the industry leader is the best and fastest at helping
customers get their work done: These days, this entails ensuring all products
are available and searchable via the web, cell phones and apps.

Carl Ras set a target of increasing online sales as a share of business turnover
from 4 to 10 percent, with total sales growing correspondingly. The existing web
platform was an obvious obstacle to growth, leaving much to be desired in terms
of scalability, overview and, most importantly, convenience for shoppers. It was
also unwieldy to administer. With more than 40,000 item, the Carl Ras range
requires constant changes that took up too much time for employees.

To develop a new B2B ecommerce solution, Carl Ras turned to Impact, an ecommerce
specialists and Optimizely Gold Solution Partner in Denmark. Carl Ras was
looking for a solution that not only offered a better shopper experience but
also made its internal work easier.

In order to create a future-proof solution, Carl Ras decided to modernize its IT
architecture. This investment includes adaptation to the cloud, development of
applications based on micro-services and a commerce platform built according to
the headless principle.

The new architecture makes it possible to reuse services across the entire
business and replace underlying systems without the need to revamp shopper-
oriented applications. The IT architecture surrounding integrations and data
warehouses has been rewritten to enable a consistent omnichannel shopping
experience.

Carl Ras had many compelling reasons to choose Optimizely as its ecommerce
platform. What set Optimizely apart was its user-friendly content asset
management and the fact that the platform is available in the cloud, with good
opportunities for integration with Microsoft Azure.

## **Rewarding to include customer feedback**

At the start of the project, customers and other stakeholders were interviewed
so that their feedback could be incorporated into development work. It emerged
that supervisors spent many hours ordering materials for their employees and
coordinating various construction projects, addresses, customers and payers. The
solution, therefore, needed to focus on speeding up the ordering process,
improving the overview and making it easier for construction supervisors to
delegate purchasing to their employees.

Navigation and menu structure have been designed to be more user-friendly and
focused. When a customer logs in to the Carl Ras website, it displays their
personalized prices, discounts, delivery methods and delivery terms.

The customer is also able to set up multiple construction sites to keep track of
the material for different projects. One example is the possibility of
simultaneously ordering items for several construction sites, placing them in a
common shopping cart and having each item directed to their respective
workplace.

The new option for the customer to delegate purchasing responsibility not only
helps to make the process more efficient but also makes it possible to customize
the shopping experience for different employees. Meanwhile, there is a
convenient authorization feature that enables managers to check and approve
orders quickly.

Carl Ras now offers ecommerce not only online, but also through apps for mobile
users. For example, datasheets for products in use can be downloaded, so that
up-to-date safety information is available to professionals on a construction
site.

## **Marketing initiatives are measured in real-time**

The new solution includes a reporting platform and dashboard, which collects
data from Google Analytics and the business system. This enables Carl Ras to see
how its online and offline merchandising is impacting sales, and to measure
efficacy based on the cost of each channel.

Previously, it took Carl Ras 24 hours to produce performance-related data, while
the new interface displays the information in real-time. This makes it easy to
re-prioritize marketing activities and select the most effective channels to
generate upselling.

The solution showed promising results in a short space of time. Shoppers have
received a lightning-fast website and the number of visitors has increased
significantly. Editors can perform their work much more efficiently, which means
faster time-to-market for new ventures. Editing work has also been reduced by
50%.

I’ve never been so proud to launch a new website. Despite a complex set of
factors, we can live up to our motto that shoppers should always be able to find
what they’re looking for.

Morten Jørgensen

Digital Innovation Lead, Carl Ras

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Products used

- Content Management System
- Feature Experimentation
