# Channel 4 A/B test their way to primetime success using Optimizely

Learn how Channel 4 achieved business success by experimenting across its web,
mobile apps, smart TVs and games console platforms

## At a glance

- Experiment across web, mobile apps, smart TVs and games consoles
- 150+ A/B tests launched in past year
- Velocity of experiments doubled
- Opticon Award winners for Best Experimentation Practice 2022

## **A premiere national television broadcaster**

Channel 4 is a premiere British public-service national television broadcaster
that first launched in 1982. The channel is known for its distinctive
programming, which often pushes boundaries and tackles controversial topics.
Channel 4 has been credited with launching several influential and ground-
breaking television shows and documentaries.

Commercially funded, Channel 4 is owned by the Channel Four Television
Corporation, a public body established by the British government.Channel 4’s
popularity stretches beyond terrestrial television; the TV broadcaster also
allows its viewers to watch its programmes online through its free video on-
demand service, stream through users’ SMART TV or watch via a dedicated mobile
app. To improve the customer experience across its multiple channels, encourage
users to watch more content and test and validate experiments to maximize
advertisement revenue, Channel 4 partnered with Optimizely in 2017. **Lack of
clarity leads to blockbuster change**

Internally, Channel 4’s product management and experimentation teams walk a
tricky tightrope. The teams must carefully innovate and optimize its on-demand
platform and apps to attract and engage users on a budget whilst ensuring that
features and changes that are made are released with minimal risk and disruption
to both its users and advertising partners.As Andrew Jackson, Senior Product
Manager at Channel 4, detailed, “we wanted the opportunity to be able to try
different things cheaply, and ultimately reduce and minimize the risks of
launching new features.” Before utilizing Optimizely’s Web and Feature
Experimentation platforms, Channel 4 could lack clarity when testing new ideas.
Whilst small group user testing provided some insight, the internal teams at
Channel 4 lacked the ability to truly test and validate assumptions at scale.

Also, at the time, it was difficult to measure the impact of individual features
and differentiate the impact of product changes from schedule changes. Laura
Shelton, Optimisation Manager at Channel 4, explained that “as a media company,
you can release features and try to measure the impact of them, but usage of our
services is influenced by which popular shows are on at any given time.”
Therefore, Optimizely’s full experimentation suite, containing both Web
Experimentation and Feature Experimentation products was selected by Channel 4
to support the TV broadcaster with its A/B testing journey.

## Behind the scenes of Channel 4's Web Experimentation strategy

After a smooth onboarding process, Channel 4, supported by testing partner Good
Growth, quickly started to leverage Optimizely’s experimentation platforms to
test various hypotheses.

When conducting tests, Channel 4’s internal teams work in multi-discipline
‘squads’ who each own a particular strategy. To determine the focus and
direction of these squads, workshops are held over a two-week sprint period.
Data and insights from users, customer panels and competitive research are all
collected to shape ideas for testing. These insights are used to produce an
‘Experiment Card’, which details the technical build of the experiment. The
Experiment Card is then used by the delivery teams to build and quality
assurance (QA) experiments, with the Experimentation team’s guidance on
targeting and segmentation. For experiments utilizing Optimizely’s Feature
Experimentation platform, tests usually require a release via an app store
before the experiment begins. Otherwise, all tests in general must avoid big
content launches.Channel 4’s web testing partner, Good Growth, align with in-
house developers to provide testing support on the website. They work closely
with Channel 4’s Experimentation team to ensure tests are run in a smooth and
impactful manner.**Channel 4 switches customer experience with Optimizely**

**Use Case 1 – AutoPlay Experiment**

One goal of Channel 4’s on-demand platform is to engage its users and make it as
easy as possible to watch content.

Channel 4 hypothesised that reducing the length of time taken for content to
autoplay into the next episode would keep viewers watching more content.

The team utilized Optimizely’s Feature Experimentation platform to run a feature
variable test that trialled various countdown timer lengths including some that
the business was nervous might be too short.

The test was a fantastic success, removing friction between episodes, and
delivering surprising results. The optimum countdown timer length between each
episode was shorter than expected, proving to be the ideal time to best engage
viewers.

**Use Case 2 – Picture in Picture Viewing**

Picture in Picture (PiP) viewing is a feature that enables users to watch a
video in a small floating window while using other applications or browsing the
web.

After receiving consistent user reviews and feedback around the lack of PiP
viewing, the Channel 4 product team wanted to incorporate the feature into its
mobile app. However, there was concern both internally and from stakeholders
that advert breaks would be less impactful in a smaller viewport.

To test this, Channel 4 utilized Optimizely’s Feature Experimentation to run a
feature flag test to track and monitor when users were minimizing the screen and
if these times coincided with ad breaks. The results of the experiment showed
that users minimized the screen at consistent intervals whilst viewing content,
not just whilst ad breaks were being screened.

By suggesting an experiment to explore the impact of PiP, Channel 4’s product
team were able to show that the feature improved customer experience so much
that they watched more content and therefore also generated more advertising
impressions. By vouching for the customers’ experience, whilst keeping business
needs in mind, the team were able to design the experiment and tracking needed
to answer questions from both sides.

Optimizely’s Web Testing is quick, easy and agile. It allows us to explore ideas
and see if it's then worth taking that forward into the more complicated areas
to experiment on.

Laura Shelton - Optimisation Manager

Optimisation Manager

## **Leveraging Optimizely to test and optimize website and app features**

Channel 4’s product and experimentation teams noted several positive benefits
from utilizing Optimizely’s experimentation capabilities. By utilizing
Optimizely’s Stats Engine, Channel 4’s internal teams can quickly and
efficiently monitor experiments while live. Laura Shelton noted that her team
appreciated both the simplicity and accuracy of Optimizely’s platform whilst
also having the ability to dig deeper into the results and view convergence over
time before experiments reach statistical significance.

The increased flexibility that Channel 4 now have to run complex experiments,
track events and define audiences has not gone unnoticed by those inside the
organization. Laura Shelton commented that “because Optimizely’s web testing is
so quick, easy and agile, we can at least explore ideas and see if it's then
worth taking that forward into the more complicated areas to experiment on.”
Shelton shared that Optimizely’s platform allowed Channel 4 to launch features
that help to isolate changes and assign value to the change that was made. This
also allows Channel 4 to test in a more lightweight fashion as the isolated
feature can be changed, experimented on, and terminated if the experiment
fails.utilizing Optimizely’s Web and Feature Experimentation products allows
Channel 4 to quickly and effectively run both simple and complex experiments on
its various platforms. The Events feature in Optimizely’s Web Experimentation
product, which tracks the actions that users take on Channel 4’s website, has
given the product team flexibility and leeway to run experiments when a variable
has been misinterpreted or implemented incorrectly.

From a user management perspective, Channel 4’s internal teams found value from
the environment permissions feature. The feature controls which collaborators
have permission to start and stop experiments in an environment. This allowed
Channel 4’s product team to limit the number of people who can change the
statuses of experiments or move them from one environment to another. This
proved of particular importance for the development teams on full stack
experiments.Andrew Jackson explained that this feature helped to streamline and
understand experiments that were taking place concurrently as, previously,
experiments would have to be duplicated across multiple projects.There has been
a culture shift and mindset change inside the organization towards
experimentation. Previously, features and releases would be guided by pre/post
analysis, sometimes supported with small user group research tasks. Now, there
is a wider demand from senior leadership to product and marketing teams that
ensures hypotheses are validated and tested to mitigate risk, as well as prove
impact on KPIs and find the right direction to launch new features in.The number
of experiments deployed by Channel 4 has grown rapidly with more than 150 A/B
tests launched and documented in the past year. All experiments are now
documented in a single repository. An experimentation community has been built
around this repository, with comments and advice on experiments encouraged. This
gives experimenters more feedback and thus opportunities to learn. It also gives
others the opportunity to learn at the periphery.ConclusionBy utilizing
Optimizely’s experimentation platform and partnering with Good Growth to scale
their A/B testing program, Channel 4 have realized the full potential that
implementing an extensive experimentation testing programme can bring to an
organization. Now, hypotheses can be tested and ideas can be validated.

Going forward, Channel 4’s product team aims to hone its platforms’
personalization capabilities to create bespoke and tailored experiences for its
users.

#### Industry

Media and entertainment

#### Products used

- Feature Experimentation
- Web Experimentation
