# How charity: water boosts donation size

When a visitor makes a donation, they enter how much they’d like to give in a
box before providing their payment information. charity: water pre-fills the
input box with a suggested donation amount, which used to be $20 or $30.

The team experimented with increasing the amount to maximize the total money
raised and found that a better pre-fill for average donation size without
reducing conversion rate was $60

### Does matching motivate people to donate?

From time to time, charity: water matches public donations through another
donor. The team tested whether this motivates more people to donate, and were
surprised to find that matching didn’t get more people to convert and the
overall number of visitors who pushed the “Donate” button stayed the same.

However, an experiment run over the holidays showed that the average donation
size increased by 30% while a match was offered. “When people who are
[initially] willing to give $50 actually give $65, it scales up into millions of
dollars over the whole year of donations,” said Scott.

Insights from Optimizely have helped us radically raise more money—millions and
millions of dollars online over the years.

Scott Harrison

Founder and CEO, charity: water, charity: water

## Simplified sign-up flow for campaigns

From day one, charity: water has leveraged the power of social connections (and
social media) to bring people into their cause. They were one of the first
nonprofits to embrace Snapchat and Instagram, and a central part of their
fundraising culture is campaigns led by individual evangelists who ask their
friends and family to donate. For example, 170,000 people have created birthday
campaigns asking for charity: water donations instead of birthday gifts.

The team experimented with the sign-up flow to start a campaign and saw drop-off
on longer flows. So they tested a very short flow that collected much less
information and was designed to be less intimidating. The result was a 34%
increase in clicks on the “Create Campaign” button.

“[This was a] huge, huge win for us. We would have never thought that collecting
this amount of information would have deterred people,” said Scott.

### What's next for charity: water

Most individual donors find charity: water, give a gift, and move on. As a
result, the nonprofit needs to find up to 85% new donors each year—or, they must
invest in programs that keep these community members engaged for recurring
revenue.

“The key business challenge for us right now is more repeatable, sustainable
revenue so we don't have to start over every single year, and to give an amazing
experience to these people with virtual reality and media to bring the stories
closer to the donors,” said Scott.

To that end, charity: water is experimenting with a program in which individuals
give monthly to fund clean water projects and sustainability. Even if the
donation amount varies—donors can give at any level they are comfortable
with—what matters the most are the long-term relationships that are created.

> We're trying to build a team of people who can step into the next 10 years
> with us as we hope to make an even bigger impact.
> — Scott Harrison, founder and CEO, charity: water

#### Industry

Charity and non-profits

#### Product used

- Web Experimentation

#### Customer's website

https://www.charitywater.org/
