## \*\*ClassPass overhaul website design with 10% increase in sign up rate using

Optimizely\*\*

## At a glance

- Comprehensive website redesign utilizing Optimizely Web Experimentation to address frequently asked questions and improve end-to-end user experience (full use case below)
- 10% increase in sign up rate — double the original goal of 5%
- 8 prototype tests during website redesign
- 10 A/B experiments during website redesign

ClassPass, a pioneering fitness and wellness platform, has garnered a global
following since its inception in 2013. With a user-centric approach and seamless
app-based platform, ClassPass provides individuals in 30 countries across 5
continents with unparalleled access to a wide spectrum of fitness and wellness
activities, ranging from yoga, strength training, dance classes, spa
appointments, manicures, massages and more.

As ClassPass continues to expand its offerings and refine its user experience,
it remains at the forefront of the fitness and wellness revolution, connecting
people around the world with a vibrant tapestry of physical and mental well-
being opportunities.

ClassPass also offers wellness activities like sports recovery as well as beauty
and spa appointments like manicures, massages, etc.**ClassPass’ leverages
Optimizely and experimentation culture for growth**

As an innovative and forward-thinking organization, ClassPass have had a long
and fruitful relationship with both experimentation as a discipline and company
culture, and Optimizely as its preferred A/B testing partner. ClassPass’
experimentation and conversion rate optimization (CRO) program is supported by
an experimentation culture that stems from senior leadership.

As Nina Bayatti, Director of CRO at ClassPass, who has led the company’s
experimentation growth since 2018, explained, “It’s amazing to see, in the five-
and-a-half years I've been at ClassPass, the growth in scope of the experiments
that we're running.” From isolated landing page optimization tests, to
leveraging user research to optimize messaging, to now running a full end-to-end
web redesign through Optimizely; ClassPass has leveraged Optimizely’s web
experimentation tool to empower their Marketing CRO team to become a key ally
for the product and engineering teams to test features using a minimum viable
product approach.

In evaluating experimentation tools over the years, ClassPass has consistently
championed Optimizely. A significant factor in this choice is the extensive
knowledge-sharing ecosystem formed by Optimizely's widespread usage. ClassPass
benefits from a wealth of documentation, both from Optimizely's official
resources and community forums where fellow practitioners share insights, tips,
and even shareable code snippets. This robust repository of information has
proven instrumental in ClassPass' successful utilization of Optimizely,
reinforcing its position as a pivotal asset in ClassPass' experimentation
journey.**Benefits**

ClassPass’ internal teams noted several positive benefits from utilizing
Optimizely’s experimentation capabilities. By utilizing Optimizely’s Stats
Engine, ClassPass’s CRO team have confidence surrounding the data their
experiments produce. Nina Bayatti noted that her team appreciated both the
simplicity and shareability of Optimizely’s dashboards.

ClassPass' enthusiasm for Optimizely's Web Experimentation platform is grounded
in its ability to empower their engineering team to focus on impactful
initiatives. This streamlined approach encourages swift experimentation and
innovation, facilitating a culture of continuous learning. The organization's
experimentation culture has grown organically, with cross-functional teams
actively engaged in driving experiments. The company's commitment to end-to-end
testing, involving various departments such as product, creative, legal and
customer service teams reflects their dedication to optimizing user experiences
comprehensively. This experimental culture, endorsed from the top down, has not
only accelerated decision-making but also reinforced a profound understanding of
the value of testing and iteration.utilizing Optimizely’s Web and Feature
Experimentation products allows ClassPass to quickly and effectively run both
simple and complex experiments on its various platforms. ClassPass utilize
Optimizely's Feature Experimentation to conduct lifecycle testing, allowing
ClassPass to meticulously examine and optimize the member experience across
various stages such as class discovery, booking, and inviting friends to class.
The implementation of Feature Flags and Rollouts allows ClassPass to seamlessly
test and refine the existing user experience to gain deeper insights into user
behavior and preferences.**Integrations**

ClassPass' strong partnership with Optimizely's Web Experimentation platform is
characterized by strategic integrations and diverse utilization. ClassPass’
Content Management System (CMS) seamlessly integrates with Optimizely’s
experimentation platform for efficient rollout of successful variants while
minimizing performance risks.

The adoption of behavior analysis tools, like LogRocket, deepened their insights
beyond numerical metrics. This visualization aided in understanding user
interactions comprehensively. Additionally, UserTesting.com streamlined their
design process, aligning designs with user expectations before coding commenced.

The user-friendliness of Optimizely is evident in how I approach hiring. I never
consider prior Optimizely knowledge a prerequisite because it's remarkably easy
to learn. If someone has a background in web development and a basic grasp of AB
testing concepts, they can quickly grasp the page targeting, event tracking, and
utilization of the on-page editor, all of which are seamlessly integrated within
the Optimizely UI.

Nina Bayatti - Director of Conversion Rate Optimization

Director of Conversion Rate Optimization

## Use Case 1 – ClassPass Website Redesign

ClassPass embarked on a comprehensive website redesign initiative with the goal
of improving the end-to-end user experience, driven by insights from previous
experimentation efforts and user feedback. The company recognized that its
former approach to experimentation lacked cohesion, focusing on specific
elements of the signup process without considering the holistic flow. With a
laser focus on enhancing the end-to-end user journey, ClassPass leveraged the
Optimizely’s dynamic experimentation platform to create a seamless and
captivating signup process.

Past user surveys and exit intent surveys conducted revealed significant
opportunities for improvement. A portion of potential customers cited confusion
about ClassPass' credit system as a primary reason for not signing up. In
response, ClassPass formed a cross-functional team involving marketing, UX
design, and engineering to collaboratively drive the redesign process. The
team's alignment marked a pivotal moment, as it fostered a unified approach to
design and testing, effectively breaking down silos that had previously existed.
This collective effort aimed to ensure that the redesign addressed various
friction points identified through user feedback.

## Examples of new and intuitive designs

**Image 1 - mobile-friendly designs for CTAs, easy-to-read walkthrough before
signup flow**

**Image 2 - new credits explainer web page to address common questions about how
ClassPass credits work**

The redesign process took place primarily on the mobile website to enable
focused and rapid iteration. The ClassPass team began with wireframing, mapping
out the flow of information to ensure that common user questions were addressed
cohesively. Optimizely’s powerful experimentation platform allowed ClassPass to
swiftly develop lightweight prototypes for swift feedback collection, followed
by user testing to gauge user comprehension and reactions to the proposed
changes. The iterative approach to design based on user feedback aimed to align
the redesigned experience with user expectations.

Throughout the website redesign, a balance between aesthetics and performance
was struck. The team decided not to pursue certain visually appealing design
elements that might compromise page loading speed and overall performance.

ClassPass' strategic redesign initiative, driven by user-centric insights,
cross-functional collaboration and Optimizely’s A/B testing capabilities,
resulted in an enhanced mobile website experience. The focus on clarity,
comprehensibility, and speed ultimately aimed to address the credit system
confusion and encourage sign-ups. The iterative approach, combined with a
thoughtful use of design elements for performance optimization, illustrated
ClassPass' commitment to delivering a user experience that aligns with user
expectations and facilitates ease of navigation and interaction.

## Conclusion

Looking ahead, ClassPass envisions extending its well-established
experimentation program to various other dimensions of its offerings. Nina
Bayatti detailed that the company has developed a thriving corporate program,
allowing HR managers to facilitate subsidized ClassPass memberships as part of
employee benefits. This initiative has gained significant traction, attracting
the participation of renowned companies worldwide.

As the corporate program continues to gain prominence, the company's focus is
now directed towards optimizing the user journey for HR managers and employees
engaging with the program. This strategic shift towards experimentation in this
domain provides an exciting opportunity to explore a fresh demographic, gaining
insights into the distinct requirements and preferences of both employers and
employees.

With the rapid expansion of the corporate program, the subsequent increase in
traffic offers ClassPass ample prospects for rigorous testing and iterative
enhancements. This new avenue of experimentation holds promise as it expands
ClassPass' understanding of user dynamics and aspirations within the corporate
landscape, paralleling the successful approach employed on the consumer-facing
side of the platform.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Products used

- Web Experimentation
- Feature Experimentation
