# Clover ring up digital growth with experimentation

Clover is a cloud-based, Android, point of sale platform that was launched in
April 2012 providing business payment solutions for SMEs in the restaurant,
retail services and ecommerce sectors. The US-based business is experiencing an
enormous growth period, with an annual processing volume of over $133bn across
nine million transactions daily on the one million payment devices it has
shipped all over the world.

The Digital Growth team at Clover is responsible for optimizing its customers’
digital experience. The business relies on experimentation to guide digital
decision-making which enables Clover and its customers to quickly learn and
measure what changes deliver the best outcomes for the users. Clover needed to
find a partner to build a high velocity experimentation programme to solve real
customer problems.

Clover chose Optimizely to design a solution that would drive impact faster for
its customers, using an integrated mix of Optimizely Web and Optimizely React.
The solution helped to reduce reliance on technical resources so that it could
instrument web experiments out-of-the-box on dynamic websites. The Optimizely
Stats Accelerator and Engine then allowed faster decisions with reduced time,
showing peeking results of experiments over time.The final integrated piece of
the solution was to iterate experiments faster, with all the business data
available, in real time all in one place without using developer resources
through integrating with Optimizely Heap. Heap automatically captures every
customer touchpoint and automates away the pain of data collection.

Clover’s Digital Growth team chose to partner with Optimizely in an effort to
build a high-velocity experimentation programme. Since replacing Adobe Target
with Optimizely, the team has been able to grow its experiment velocity by four
times every month, uncovering insights they’ve used to significantly increase
their digital acquisition amongst SMB merchants on clover.com. The project
results have met all of Clover’s objectives which included reduced reliance on
technical resources to instrument web experiments, having more confidence in
experiment data with real-time results and improved false discovery rate control
and receiving custom training with frameworks to operationalize experimentation
from a team of experts dedicated to improving test velocity and win rate.

#### Industry

Tech

#### Products used

- Web Experimentation
- Feature Experimentation

#### Customer's website

https://www.clover.com/
