# Coloplast

Optimizely integrations help make the global more local

## At a glance

- 28 languages
- 65% cost per word of list rate
- 3 months to achieve ROI

## The Challenge

Founded in 1954, Coloplast specialize in developing and manufacturing medical
devices for health professionals globally. Their products and services are
designed to make life easier for people living with very personal and private
medical conditions including, Ostomy Care, Continence Care and Interventional
Urology.

These often lifesaving products are sold in over 50 countries worldwide, each
with their own intricate need and specialized requirement.

Coloplast had a mixed infrastructure based on various content management systems
and differentiated local sites based on local market needs. With no centralized
handle over content or layout they struggled when planning to migrate all sites
to a common Optimizely CMS and Optimizely Commerce platform, both of which were
already in place. A considerable challenge was how to manage a centralized
translation of web and product content into 28 languages to serve to their
diverse active markets.

All this was to coincide with Coloplast’s strategic direction of transitioning
focus from a solely B2B stance onto B2C and direct-to-consumer.

With Optimizely we were the first company in our industry to build a
[translation] connector. There’s pretty substantial savings to be had. It takes
away headache, it gets rid of manual processes and ultimately makes translations
significantly more scalable. It allows them [Coloplast] to get to market faster.

Nicholas A. Panagopoulos

VP, Global Strategic Alliances, GlobalLink

## The Solution

In need of a translation management solution to cover all sites, Coloplast opted
for the GlobalLink Connect Add-on for Optimizely. Through this automation, the
submission of content needing translation and the subsequent retrieval of
content post translation resulted in hundreds of operational hours saved. This
was attributed as the most effective way of achieving the key objective; making
a more streamlined process of managing and launching a multilingual site.

Working in close partnership with Translations.com and Optimizely Premium
Partner Valtech, the teams illustrated the system architecture based on the
Optimizely solutions. This would act as a support for translation management
technologies. This was tightly managed by the project management team in
association with the Coloplast Digital Communications team.

With the implementation of GlobalLink Connect for Optimizely, Coloplast have
entered the next stage of digital readiness. By running the necessary
infrastructure and language services this solution provides, Coloplast are
positioned to take products to market quicker than previously. Launches happens
in weeks opposed to months, meaning they can react and deploy fast, standing out
against competition.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Content Management System
