# Commscope improve digital experience and increase revenue with Optimizely's

DXP

## At a glance

- 8 out of 10 digital satisfaction score
- 4 Million+ Visitors
- 60,000+ active users of MyCommScope self-service tools
- Tens of millions in revenue attributed to commscope.com

## CommScope's global impact on the network industry

CommScope is a U.S. company based in North Carolina with industry-leading
expertise in designing and manufacturing network infrastructure. CommScope was
listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange in October 2013.

Equipped with almost five decades of experience, CommScope is an expert in
connecting people, enabling smart locations, and providing world-class solutions
for network providers.

In April 2019, CommScope acquired ARRIS, growing the company to 30,000 workers,
15,000 patents, and $850 million in annual R&D spending.

With over 30 distribution centers spanning 20 countries and a growing portfolio,
it was important for CommScope to provide its customers with up-to-date
information coupled with an intuitive customer journey in a unified manner.

CommScope’s impact in connecting the world was recognized in 2020 when the
company was named a Wi-Fi Alliance® Industry Impact Award recipient. The award
honors exemplary member companies in the Wi-Fi industry.

## CommScope's need for world-class technology to keep up with its growing

portfolio of companies

With its complex offering spanning from network infrastructure to software
support, CommScope has to ensure that customers find the information they
need—when, where and how they need it.

In addition, CommScope’s go-to-market strategy meant more websites to maintain.
CommScope needed a secure, always-on solution that customers can access anytime,
anywhere.

Senior Director of Customer Experience Technologies, Bob Vonderheide, shared
that CommScope’s growing portfolio saw various applications coming together.
CommScope required a solution with excellent integration options to ensure a
seamless experience for internal and external stakeholders.

With a diverse customer base, CommScope’s process for delivering relevant
information to the right user groups had to be facilitated by personalization
capabilities, something it lacked.

However, it was challenging for CommScope to achieve its goals due to outdated
technology that could not execute CommScope’s vision, shared Director of Digital
Communications, Keri Becker.

## Connecting CommScope stakeholders with Optimizely

CommScope’s customer-centric digital strategy and technological overhaul was a
huge undertaking. The team wanted partners for strategic initiatives that would
help them expedite timelines and execution. The team landed on Optimizely as its
preferred digital solutions provider and The C2 Group as its initial
implementation partner. C2 helped CommScope start with Optimizely via in-depth
training and laying the foundation in line with the best practices of CX. Since
the initial launch, CommScope has also worked with Adage Technologies and
Rightpoint on other strategic initiatives. CommScope procured Optimizely’s
world-class CMS and Content Recommendations. Optimizely CMS runs on Azure cloud
computing platform, improving CommScope’s site scalability, speed, and security.
The CommScope team got to work immediately with Authoring & Layout’s intuitive
content blocks and templates. They have also extended their usage of Optimizely
to create Virtual Selectors to simplify complex online solution configuring
processes and create new content blocks including a 3D block that depicts
locations where CommScope’s solutions are deployed. Optimizely Content
Recommendations’ Retargeting and AI-powered Web Content Recommendations worked
in tandem to facilitate CommScope’s personalization efforts in delivering
tailored content to different user groups. CommScope’s effort in non-stop
enhancements for user experience meant continuous onboarding of internal
stakeholders. Customer Experience IT Senior Manager, Joanne Ofiara, shared that
developers are confident with Optimizely’s capabilities in integration,
deployment, and build. In addition, Optimizely’s customizable and intuitive
interface eased workflows for content and web editors within CommScope,
streamlining its content personalization efforts.

CommScope also procured Optimizely Web Experimentation to improve revenue
growth. The CommScope team leverages Optimizely’s high-speed experimentation
capabilities to test hypotheses on UI/UX, types of CTA, product information
display, and more to find what works best for CommScope’s diverse customer base.

Ofiara shared that the CommScope team is pleased with the way Optimizely handles
its newly acquired solutions by ensuring consistent branding, making it easy for
them to keep up with Optimizely’s growth. Optimizely’s attentiveness to customer
support and R&D has also impressed the CommScope team.

Quote: CommScope Quote Block

## CommScope's success with a customer-centric digital strategy

By leveraging Optimizely, the CommScope team successfully overhauled its tech
stack, empowering them to improve CommScope’s site user journey, achieving an
overall digital satisfaction score of eight out of 10 (via Medallia). In
addition, CommScope’s secure MyCommScope portal, hosted on Azure has helped to
grow its active user base to over 60,000 users. The CommScope team also found
plenty of value in Optimizely’s constant expansion of its portfolio as it
provides the team with a roadmap for future digital enhancements. Optimizely’s
integration capabilities have also empowered the CommScope team to unify its
tech stack internally. With Optimizely’s flexible and customizable solution,
CommScope has attributed tens of millions in revenue to commscope.com
Optimizely’s user-centric solutions have also enhanced the CommScope team’s
creativity in delivering customer-centric digital CX. This has contributed to
CommScope’s 17 Million pageviews in 2022

## CommScope's pursuit of connecting the world and beyond

On a strategic level, CommScope will focus on a segmented brand strategy to
differentiate its growing portfolio of brands to fully educate customers on the
full extent of CommScope’s capabilities in the network industry. The CommScope
team will also be doubling down on their efforts in experimentation and content
personalization by leveraging more of Optimizely’s AI-powered capabilities as
they still see a lot of untapped value.

With the success of its Virtual Selector and innovative use of content blocks,
the CommScope team is working on other ways to push the limits of the Optimizely
platform to continually elevate the customer experience.

#### Industry

Tech

#### Products used

- Web Experimentation
- Content Management System
- Recommendations

#### Customer's website

https://www.commscope.com/

## In collaboration with:

Adage Technologies, Inc.

We are ready to help you with your Optimizely Content and Commerce digital
experience.

Rightpoint

Premier Platinum Partner! Rightpoint has partnered with Optimizely (Episerver)
for almost a decade delivering award-winning digital experiences for some of the
largest brands in the world.

The C2 Group

The C2 Group specializes in designing, developing, and supporting custom CMS and
ecommerce solutions on Optimizely.
