# Copenhagen Airport

Reaching new heights with omni-channel commerce

## The Challenge

Copenhagen Airport, the largest airport in Scandinavia, serves as the major
airport for both Copenhagen, Denmark and Malmö, Sweden and hosts the largest
shopping center in Denmark. Every day the company's 1,900 employees serve up to
50,000 passengers.

Copenhagen airports recognized that travel can be stressful, and with so many
people travelling in and out every day, the company decided they needed a
complete workaround of the digital customer experience to better serve their
needs. The company decided to create online touchpoints for customers, including
duty-free pre-order, flight and passenger information, and the ability to
research and book parking. Two of the key goals were to help customers make
quicker purchasing decisions in the shopping center and make it easier to pick
up pre-ordered goods.

We've seen the spend at around two and a half times higher than what they spend
coming to the airport. The customer comes better prepared because we have these
online touchpoints, and they will shop more.

Jonas Müller

Head of eCommerce, Copenhagen Airport

## The Solution

Copenhagen Airports set its digital ambitions high, but they wanted to take it
further. In the digital age, the idea of ‘knowing your customer’ translates into
knowing precisely who needs what at which moment in time. Optimizely provided a
unified platform for shopping, flight and passenger information, parking,
members lounge information and special offers, all within a single sign on.
Using Optimizely’s solutions, Optimizely partner, Valtech, designed a smooth and
personalized omni-channel customer journey, offering opportunities for increased
engagement time and thus, business opportunities.

Copenhagen airports now identifies opportunities for engagement at every
touchpoint. In the flight search process, CPH uses profiling cloud software to
collect data. Next comes travel preparation and taxfree shopping: all as stress
free as it can be. Product Information Management (PIM) enables smooth
disclosure of product presentations in one central interface. Once at the
airport, the airport app, wifi, and mobile points of sale (POS) engage the
traveller even more. And after arrival at the destination it continues and
eventually it starts all over again with booking or preparing for the next
flight.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Content Management System
