# Creative Co-Op increases transactions by 19%

## **Creating memorable spaces**

Creative Co-Op is a home and seasonal décor, candle, jewellery & fashion
accessories company. Creative Co-Op offers a broad range of styles reflecting
the varying and unique tastes of consumers throughout North America and over 55
countries internationally.

The ‘Creative’ part of their name revolves around imagination, design, and
collaboration with artists. ‘Co-Op’ speaks to the union of our customers, our
suppliers, and our people. The combination results in a unique ability to bring
extraordinary products to valued customers.

Their product assortment showcases styles for every room, every taste, and every
occasion. The core home décor offering is as unique as it is expansive, with
thousands of products that bring personality to every home. From Casual Country
to Canyon Grove, from Little One to Luxe, the collections offer choices to make
every space memorable.

## **Furnishing a new digital home**

Creative Co-Op wanted to redesign the Creative Co-Op website to improve product
discovery and better engage their active customer base. There was an ambition to
enhance their online experience with a feature-rich website that could easily be
updated to highlight limited-time promotions and merchandise. This would
coincide with delivering a personal and compelling digital experience that
offers sophisticated B2B tools and features for their registered retailers.

Creative Co-Op specified a platform that is easy to update with fresh content
and special promotions, while reducing their reliance on website developers to
make updates and course-correct issues. Included in this detailed specification
was a platform capable of supporting dynamic landing pages.

## **Decorating with Optimizely**

Creative Co-Op teamed with digital agency Whereoware to redesign their digital
landscape and make it easier for customers to browse and shop their 6,000+
products. Whereoware redesigned and rebuilt the website on WOWCommerce, a
proprietary accelerator package bringing feature-rich Optimizely websites to
market faster.**Thoughtful customer design**

The new Optimizely website features a modern, minimalist design and thoughtful
user experience (UX). Intuitive product categories help retailers search and
identify the best product for their store. Large, high resolution imagery and
alternative views show off product details and an interactive Instagram
integration enriches audience engagement. It’s replete with powerful B2B tools
and functionality, and features the intuitive WOWCommerceplatform for easy
updating and merchandising. The website is responsive and delivers an
exceptional UX from every device (desktop, mobile, and tablet).

## **Dynamic product discovery**

In addition, Creative Co-Op’s new website streamlines product discovery with
enhanced navigation, filtering, and search options. The homepage’s elegant
design places products center stage with a dynamic, multi-image slider hero, a
visual dropdown navigation with promotional block, and prominent calls-to-action
guiding retailers’ exploration of the site. Even further, the feature-rich
Retailer Portal enhances retailer’s a one-stop-shop to search, shop, and
purchase products, while more effectively managing their business.

## **An enticing B2B platform**

Creative Co-Op’s new website makes it easy and enjoyable for busy retailers to
fulfil inventory. Large product imagery and lifestyle photography capture
retailers’ attention, while the #CreativelyYours campaign invites retailers to
more intimately engage with the Creative Co-Op brand. The website successfully
streamlines product discovery, while offering tons of B2B-focused features and
tools. When running their limited time specials, they create temporary landing
pages to promote the discounted products, and schedule that page to go live and
expire to fit their needs. Optimizely enables the page and products to be tested
in advance, relieving resources and stresses on go-live day. Creative Co-Op
required a platform to optimize a customer-centric, highly-personalized online
journey. Optimizely’s personalization features enable Creative Co-Op to deliver
a custom and seamless experience to its retailers. The Retailer Portal allows
Creative Co-Op to support their retailers with tools to manage their business.
Retailers can view and access past orders or invoices, making it easy and
enjoyable to do frequent business with Creative Co-Op.

Creative Co-Op consistently updates their website to optimize the customer
journey. Most recently, they updated their product detail page to enhance
product discovery.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Products used

- Recommendations
- Commerce Connect
- Content Management System

## In collaboration with:

Whereoware

Whereoware is an award-winning digital experience agency with over ten years of
working with the Optimizely platform.
