# Cuisinart accelerates direct-to-consumer online sales

One of the leading innovators of American houseware products uses our DXP to
future-proof their website for continuous growth.

Cuisinart, a division of the Conair Corporation, is a market leader in culinary
appliances, professional quality cookware, outdoor grilling and kitchen
accessories. With a mission to help consumers “Savor the Good Life®,” Cuisinart
is committed to producing a wide array of innovative, functional and top-quality
products since 1971.

Historically, Cuisinart sold their products almost exclusively through brick and
mortar and online partners, like Macy’s and Wayfair. Direct online sales were
limited to parts and accessories for their products. In 2020, Cuisinart’s long-
term goal of adding direct-to-consumer ecommerce offering to their sales
distribution channels was expedited by COVID-19-driven store closures. Seemingly
overnight, Cuisinart needed to replatform their website and enable direct-to-
consumer online sales, while still supporting their important retailer
relationships – fast.

Cuisinart partnered with digital agency Whereoware and Optimizely to replatform
their website in just six months, gain independent control of their product data
and search engine optimization (SEO), drive business growth for their retailer
partners, and support a robust DTC sales channel delivering the best possible
customer experience to every shopper.

To future-proof the website for continuous growth, Cuisinart chose Optimizely's
award-winning Digital Experience Platform (DXP). Optimizely’s best-in-class
commerce solution is flexible enough to grow with Cuisinart and their expanding
distribution channels, deliver an intuitive and mobile-friendly browsing
experience for thousands of SKUs, and integrate with dozens of third-party data
feeds.

Product detail pages feature high quality product imagery and video, full
product detail information and specs, improved Favorites functionality, and
promotion of Cuisinart’s retailer partners. Extensive back-end data feeds drive
the product detail page content to relieve Cuisinart’s team from manual updates,
like warranties, manuals, related parts and accessories, ratings, and retailer
logos. Meanwhile, compelling content like reviews and recipes (also data-driven)
immerse visitors into the product experience and deepen engagement with the
brand.

The website is mobile optimized for an excellent user experience from any
device. Enhancements to the mini cart dropdown automatically calculate the cart
total, with an editable field to adjust quantities or delete products, giving
users greater control of their shopping cart from any page. AI-driven predictive
search displays product imagery and suggestions helping browsers find the
perfect product.

Cuisinart’s marketers gain full control of their product data, digital assets,
and SEO. Streamlined product data empowers Cuisinart to update their website to
suit evolving goals, while intuitive SEO fields drive improved visibility in
search rankings. Meanwhile, Optimizely’s intuitive CMS makes it easy for
Cuisinart to create compelling, personal customer experiences on-the-fly, with
highly targeted digital marketing campaigns across email, paid advertising, and
influencer marketing.

It would be remiss of me not to tell you how amazing the Whereoware team is! I
work with a lot of agency partners, and the current team has been extraordinary
during this heavy lift. Very knowledgeable, patient and giving this project
their 110%.

Christine Kapp

Senior Digital Marketing Manager, Cuisinart

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Products used

- Content Management System
- Commerce Connect

#### Customer's website

https://www.cuisinart.com/

## In collaboration with:

Whereoware

Whereoware is an award-winning digital experience agency with over ten years of
working with the Optimizely platform.
