# Discovery optimizes digital ad viewability

## At a glance

- “Ken Burns Effect” created a 6% increase in click-throughs for Discovery's video content
- Discovery uses our Moat integration to see the impact experiments have on ad metrics

## Utilizing optimization to drive key business metrics

Discovery Communications uses Optimizely to improve their online visitor
experience and drive revenue in two major ways: by optimizing video engagement
and improving ad viewability.

Jeffrey Douglas is the Director of Product at Discovery Digital Networks, the
company’s original video programming channel. His team uses Optimizely to drive
engagement with the site’s video content, measured in clicks and overall video
views.

Douglas recently decided to run an experiment he dubbed the “Ken Burns Test.”
Ken Burns is documentary filmmaker who often focuses on subject matter that pre-
dates film. To make his films more engaging, he utilizes a style in which the
camera pans across photos and still images, creating a sense of motion and
bringing them to life.

_This is an example of Discovery’s original video content pages._

Douglas and his team tested a similar panning effect against their original
video stills, running the experiment on approximately 20,000 visitors to
Discovery’s website.

The “Ken Burns Effect” resulted in a 6% increase in click-throughs into the
video content. Douglas and his team have since applied this learning to videos
across the site to further overall engagement and produce a meaningful impact on
Discovery Communication's business.

1 col | FullWidth | Container
Quote Block: Customer Story - Discovery - Quote

### Improving AD viewability

Discovery also uses optimization to drive another key business objective—ad
viewability. Using Optimizely’s Moat integration, the team is able to see the
direct impact of each Optimizely experiment on their ad metrics, including
viewability and attention metrics for display, video, mobile, and content ads.

According to the Discovery team, the integration has had a tremendous impact in
improving ad viewability across their digital properties—including their video
page, games page, photo galleries, and more. They’re constantly testing the
size, placement, and display of ads on each their most valuable pages and
measuring the real-time performance of each variation.

### Looking forward: Page load performance

Discovery Communications plans to continue to use Optimizely to drive toward its
key business objectives and differentiate itself by providing the most engaging,
relevant user experiences possible.

Next on the roadmap, the Discovery team will focus on page load performance and
its impact on engagement, especially on mobile devices. They plan to use
Optimizely to test out their core hypothesis: if pages load faster, especially
on mobile, users engagement will increase.

#### Industry

Media and entertainment

#### Products used

- Web Experimentation
- Feature Experimentation

#### Customer's website

https://corporate.discovery.com/
