# E-Wheels supercharge their revenue by 90% and double orders with Optimizely

## At a glance

- More than 2x number of orders
- 90% increase in revenue
- Improved internal team’s time-savings

## Pioneering micromobility in Norway and beyond

Founded in 2014 in Norway, E-Wheels is now the largest retailer of personal
electric vehicles in the Nordic region. With about 100 employees in total,
E-Wheels and its sister companies also sell water sports equipment and workout
equipment, with electric vehicles being the focus for E-Wheels.

E-Wheels kicked off its business with electric unicycles. Business took off in
2018 when new legislation for electric scooters passed in Norway and e-scooters
and electric bikes were introduced as part of E-Wheels’ key offer.With a first-
mover advantage, E-Wheels contributed to the green shift and made micromobility
accessible to more than 150,000 customers. E-Wheels’ customer base includes
commuters in Scandinavia and Europe, with the occasional B2B customer.

E-Wheels credits its success to offering transportation that is affordable,
safe, and fast. It also prides itself on fast delivery and excellent customer
service throughout the buying journey as well as post-purchase assistance.As
electric vehicles require maintenance to ensure the safety of users, E-Wheels is
currently expanding its workshop locations throughout Norway and Sweden to ease
the service process. Customers can also opt to purchase replacement parts via
the E-Wheels website.

## The need for an automated, scalable solution

At first, the team believed having good products that meet customer needs was
sufficient. Upgrading the company’s website and overall customer experience was
not on the team’s radar as the company’s prior platform worked satisfactorily.

However, E-Wheels soon realized its digital solution was too simplistic and
could not scale with the type of growth E-Wheels was experiencing. While
E-Wheels products were being sold out at lightning speed, the team struggled to
handle the large amounts of orders as internal processes were manual and could
only accommodate the bare minimum. Although E-Wheels’ previous platform could
handle its site traffic just fine, there was no automation to integrate
processes such as product management, order management, and more. Chief
Information Officer of E-Wheels, Markus Søderlind, shared that updates to
E-Wheels’ internal system and stock counts were done manually as and when
container shipments were delivered. This caused a delay in inventory updates as
well as inaccurate delivery dates for customers.The printing of airway bills,
while seemingly minor, also became increasingly difficult to manage as there was
no integration between airway bill generation and orders received. As E-Wheels
wanted to retain customers, it attempted to recommend relevant products based on
a customer’s purchase history. However, this was all done manually as its
previous platform did not have the capabilities to execute data-backed
recommendations.

## Setting things in motion with Optimizely

The E-Wheels team eventually accepted that their prior platform was insufficient
for the future of the business. They started looking for other solution
providers, ranging from those suited for smaller businesses to those often used
by enterprises. After comparing multiple solutions with E-Wheels’ business
trajectory, the team decided on Optimizely as their solutions provider and Geta
as their Optimizely partner. The relationship between E-Wheels and Geta was
great from the get-go. Thanks to Geta’s robust experience with Optimizely,
E-Wheels viewed the Geta team as an integral part of its new sites’ development,
as well as other site optimization processes including SEO. The E-Wheels team
leveraged Optimizely’s Product Management capabilities to update its catalog of
more than 2,000 SKUs with rich product information including key details,
customer reviews, AR view of products as well as product safety reminders. With
a large catalog, E-Wheels utilized Search & Navigation to facilitate an easy way
to browse for products by providing site users with detailed filtering options.
Optimizely’s Content Management also comes into play by providing the team with
an easy way to publish content to update customers and keep them engaged. While
E-Wheels’ prior solution had no issues handling its site traffic, Søderlind
shared that Optimizely’s platform security and ability to handle huge spikes in
traffic played a huge role in E-Wheels choosing Optimizely. The ability to
detect suspicious traffic activity has helped put the E-Wheels team’s mind at
ease as they can rely on Optimizely to flag unusual events.Optimizely’s Single
Sign-On capability also helped the E-Wheels team streamline internal workflows
by enabling easy but secure access to their Optimizely tools. With Optimizely’s
frequent and up-to-date notifications on license renewals and software updates,
E-Wheels is also able to stay compliant and on top of its game.

A key advantage of Optimizely is its hosting abilities. As E-Wheels grows, we
get more traffic. We receive exponential site traffic during campaign periods
and having a solid platform that ensures site uptime prevents revenue loss. That
is very important to us!

Markus Søderlind

Chief Information Officer, E-Wheels

## Growing the E-Wheels market share with Optimizely

Since moving four of its 13 websites onto Optimizely in April 2021, E-Wheels has
seen more than double the number of orders and a 90% growth in revenue compared
to its previous platform. E-Wheels successfully improved customer experience
with its new digital solution’s intuitive navigation and rich content. With a
flexible platform, E-Wheels could work on market expansions without worrying
about the scalability of its platform. In addition, automating workflows with
Optimizely improved internal efficiency and time-savings for E-Wheels. E-Wheels
leveraged the notifications as an opportunity to cross-sell and upsell with
automated “notify when back in stock” emails sent out to prospective customers.
This not only provides customers with assurance and reduces stock-related
inquiries but increases the opportunity for better customer service and
engagement. Customers are also informed of the in-person pickup option with
information on inventory levels at the nearest physical branch. Customers can
then choose to pick up in store as a freight option in the checkout section. The
overall flow of communication has improved for a more user-friendly experience.
E-Wheels aim to improve this experience further by adding a “click & collect”
feature directly on each product page.Søderlind shared that E-Wheels is
confident of its industry-leading platform that helps the company stay ahead of
the curve, improve its overall reputation as well as accelerate growth and
sales.

## The future of E-Wheels

E-Wheels has plans to emulate its Norway success in Sweden as well as grow its
market share in electric bikes. Electric bikes will also be made available in
its Europe offering next year. A customer club loyalty program will also be
introduced later this year, with the aim of enhancing E-Wheel’s relationship
with its customers and rewarding loyal customers in a strategic way. The team
plans to maximize the potential of Optimizely’s Product Recommendations to
provide customers with data-backed recommendations both on its websites and
emails. E-Wheels also plans to focus on email and SMS marketing through
automation and segmentation based on transactional and onsite behavior.

In addition, due to limitations with its current experimentation solutions
provider, E-Wheels views the move to Optimizely’s Web Experimentation platform
as the next natural step in its experimentation and A/B testing workflow
journey. Søderlind believes Optimizely’s experimentation capabilities will be
able to support E-Wheels’ future testing plans.

This is only the beginning of E-Wheel’s digital transformation, and the team
will continue to improve the company’s tech stack to stay ahead of competitors
and exceed customer expectations.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Products used

- Commerce Connect
- Recommendations

#### Customer's website

https://www.e-wheels.no/

## In collaboration with:

Geta US Inc

Geta is one of the leading Optimizely partners in the world. Our Optimizely
expertise is unmatched with 8 OMVPs world wide, and over 10 years working...
