# eHow grows ad revenue by optimizing viewability metrics

## Growing Revenue with ad viewability

Today, online publishers like eHow have to balance the demands of two very
different (and very important) stakeholders: advertisers and content consumers.
Offering a great experience to both is critical – but can also be a tremendous
challenge. Testing, iterating, and optimizing ad viewability is the way today’s
most successful publishers are working toward that goal.

> It’s essential for any publisher to care about viewability and pay attention
> to this metric.
> — A.R. Tabrizi, Optimization Manager, Demand Media
> Ad viewability is the concept of how visible ads on a website or mobile app are
> to users. This key metric can make or break the amount of ad revenue a publisher
> brings in. Optimizing ad viewability can help publishers increase the value of
> their display inventory and maximize ad revenue.

### Optimizely's Moat Integration

eHow uses Optimizely’s Moat integration ensure high viewability rates for their
ads. Using the integration, the eHow team builds A/B tests where they experiment
with different page layouts and designs, tracking the impact each change has on
ad views to ensure the highest levels of viewability, performance, and ROI for
digital ad campaigns and content.

The following example is a test eHow recently ran to improve ad viewability on
its website.

## eHow’s banner visibility test

eHow was experiencing low viewability metrics for the banner ads on it's “how-
to” content pages. To drive these metrics back in the right direction, the eHow
team experimented with a sticky banner ad, which would stay visible on a
reader’s screen until they scrolled to a certain depth on each page. They
hypothesised that making the banner sticky would keep it in view for a longer
period of time, thus improving its visibility. They tracked a variety of
metrics, including ad viewability, reader scroll depth, and engagement.

eHow experimented with a sticky banner ad, which would stay visible on a
reader's screen until they scrolled to a certain depth on each page.

As the results came in, eHow was met with another challenge. While the sticky
banner did improve ad viewability metrics, there were also negative side
effects. It seemed that the sticky banner performed well in the eyes of
advertisers, but not readers – scroll depth and engagement with related content,
and pageviews plummeted.

eHow used this information to iterate, testing a second option. In this
iteration, they still opted for the sticky banner, but controlled its display
based on time, rather than scroll depth. After a reader had been on the page for
a certain amount of time, the sticky banner would disappear. They hypothesized
that this option would better meet the needs of both advertisers and readers.
The idea being that the ad would disappear more quickly in this case (as soon as
it met the appropriate attention requirements), giving readers a undisrupted
experience earlier on, while their interest in the article was still piqued.

### Results

The results for the iterated variation of the sticky banner were overwhelmingly
positive, greatly improving ad viewability metrics without disrupting
engagement, scroll depth, or pageviews. These results helped inform changes made
across eHow’s content pages. eHow was able to use higher viewability metrics to
increase the value of its display inventory to advertisers. The end result?
Significant gains in ad revenue for eHow, better viewability for its
advertisers, and a high-quality experience for readers.

The combination of Optimizely and Moat allowed us to quickly launch and iterate
on ideas, with the ability to have shorter development cycles. It also helped us
get a full picture of the website performance and user behavior.

A.R. Tabrizi

Optimization Manager, Demand Media, eHow

#### Industry

Tech

#### Product used

- Web Experimentation

#### Customer's website

http://www.ehow.com/
