# Taking a pan-european approach to 100+ sites

Electrolux constructs multiple sites under one umbrella that adapt to non-linear
buying journeys in up to 11 languages.

## At a glance

- 106 live sites on Optimizely
- 33 markets of operation
- 37 languages

## Electrifying different territories

One of the most iconic consumer and professional electrical goods manufacturers
today, Electrolux provides household and commercial appliances across Europe and
the world. The Swedish multinational offers designs and sustainable solutions,
under brands including Electrolux, AEG, Zanussi and Frigidaire.

They operate different areas including kitchen, laundry, small appliances and
home care and services. Products within Major Appliances include refrigerators,
freezers, cookers, dryers, washing machines, dishwashers, room air-conditioners
and microwave ovens. Small appliances include vacuum cleaners and other small
appliances. Professional Products consists of foodservice equipment and laundry
solutions for professional users.

With a multitude of different products and markets being served, it was
paramount Electrolux possessed a relevant content and ecommerce platform to
attract and convert addressable opportunities. This would come in the form of
much more than just a glossy digital catalogue. Instead, it would enable direct-
to-consumer ecommerce and deliver a better service to end-users.

Catering to the differing needs across Europe, requires an approach that is
local to each visitor. This meant the digital experience platform needed to
connect different services together and adhere to internal governance around
warranties, national scrappage requirements and local installation guides.

Each region and brand would have its own site architecture that would be multi-
purposed. It was vital these were balanced, so they were not product content
heavy but instead included elements of inspiration. The aim was to marry the
multiple sites under one digital framework built upon a powerful content and
commerce ecosystem. This would enable markets the digital freedom to work
responsively within their respective territories.

Electrolux selected Optimizely for their newly devised disruptive approach. The
best-in-class digital experience platform is designed to meet the purpose and
scale of this pan-european project which covers around 100 sites.

## Designing against international needs

One of the most complex needs revolved around the differing expectations
different regions would have when it came to buying online. Electrolux, with the
help of Optimizely partner Bombayworks, designed a digital architecture that
appeases the intricate asks of a modern ecommerce experience. Clear structure is
important for the different brands. Visitors are presented illustrative graphics
before any detailed content. The plug-in with Translations.com allows sites to
be instantly translated to 11 key languages. They are semantically translated so
each translation carries the same meaning.

Electrolux’s entire digital estate is geared towards making transactions happen.
By smartly deploying creative content in the right areas of the site,
prospective visitors are natively guided to desired products that meet their
needs. Even with today’s savvy online browsers, who no longer shop in a linear
fashion, Electrolux cater to this behavior. They understand and accept visitors
using multiple tabs to compare and evaluate products to form a purchasing
decision. As a result, Electrolux use their Optimizely estate as a story telling
experience. Their content strategy includes aspects of blending the ‘who we are’
with the needs and wants of target audiences. From there, detailed product
literature is provided aside inspiring visuals.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Products used

- Commerce Connect
- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

https://www.electrolux.se/

## In collaboration with:

Bombayworks

Bombayworks is your partner for digital growth.
