# EPG Health doubled revenue in two-year period since launching website with

Optimizely

Capturing the attention of time-poor health professions with critical, in-depth
medical coverage is an uphill battle EPG Health are winning.

## At a glance

- Doubled revenue in two-year period since launching website with Optimizely
- 91% of users would now recommend Medthority to colleagues

## \*\*Building a fully immersive digital ecosystem in an infant digital

marketplace\*\*

EPG Health, an IQVIA business is a leading global publisher of medical
information, delivering a trusted learning environment for healthcare
professionals. Providing convenient access to critical industry content needed
to support better treatment decisions and patient outcomes, they an active reach
of over a million healthcare professionals globally.

The organisation supports two customer groups: the healthcare professionals that
use their website to access clinical information, and the pharmaceutical
companies that fund educational content on the platform.

The brunt of the information on the website revolves around raising awareness
about diseases, treatment pathways, and other related drugs. Their aim is to
increase each individual healthcare professional's awareness and understanding
of a certain disease within their given specialty – for example, stroke
prevention.

''It's about increasing a healthcare professional's awareness and understanding
of a certain disease or treatment approach…to do that effectively in an
information saturated, crowded content marketplace, we need to make that content
discoverable, and easy to consume in a timely fashion'', comments Selena Smith-
Taylor, Digital Project Manager at EPG Health, on the service EPG Health’s
Medthority website (www.medthority.com) provides.

**Creating an indulgent content strategy for a time-poor audience**

Selena’s team leads EPG Health’s continuous improvement group. They experiment,
iterate and optimise content and drive the adoption of a test and learn culture,
which enables EPG Health to optimise its digital content and create first-class
digital experiences. As Selena explains, the key to successfully promoting their
content through Optimizely’s CMS is about delivering relevance and targeted
content to its users.

By driving the right audience to the most important educational material, and
measuring their engagement, EPG Health can confidently provide insight to
clients regarding how well their key messages have landed amongst their target
audience, and the likelihood of resultant behaviour change.

Content consumers cover a range of healthcare professionals all of whom can
register with their chosen speciality as well as identify areas of interest, so
they are kept abreast of industry news. Visitors include:

- Specialists
- General Medicine Professionals
- GPs
- Nurses
- Students

Selena comments, ''given we know, through our extensive market research, that
Healthcare Professionals are generally ‘time-poor’, and there is an ocean of
content to swim-through, we need to do the hard-work for them, by quickly
presenting them with updates in their areas of interest….for example, if a
Cardiologist is on Medthority [an EPG Health website], the platform will
intuitively promote content ‘suggestions within their Specialty area’, or ‘your
peers are looking at’ style recommendations”.

EPG Health’s customers expect robust well architected digital solutions that
leverage the best in digital experience and marketing toolsets. Its web users
are time poor healthcare professionals, and expect inspiring, reliable, safe and
efficient digital experiences. Given the competition for time in a Healthcare
Professional’s busy day, Selena’s team are constantly analysing what really
matters to foster engagement, which means adopting a ‘digital publishing
mindset’, within a typically traditional academic space.

## **EPG Health select Optimizely over competitors**

Before Optimizely, EPG Health’s development team were often developing or
building functionality that replicated off-the-shelf tools. Because of this
tactic, there was a perception internally that things often took too long, were
rarely comparable to off-the-shelf products and were overly complex and
vulnerable. EPG Health had developed their own web environment using CFML based
coding principals in a CMS configuration based on a 3rd party proprietary
configuration, with backend databases linked to 3rd party e-mail marketing
tools.

EPG Health needed an extensible solution that allowed them to quickly adapt
their web offering to the demands of their customers and web users. Prior to
selecting Optimizely as a technology partner and ultimately leveraging the in-
house Optimizely Expert Services team, EPG Health considered many CMS providers.
Optimizely was ultimately chosen by the EPG Health team due to the internal
perception of inherent solution extensibility and focus on personalisation
features and intelligent search, with the (Optimizely) solution mix containing
better integrated solutions for re-marketing and potential solutions aligned to
EPG Health’s product roadmap.

## **Influencing and changing a health care professional's way of working**

EPG Health launched its Medthority website in April 2020 on Optimizely’s
customer-centric Digital Experience Platform utilizing:

- Optimizely Content Management System (CMS) with Search & Navigation
- Marketing Automation
- Content Recommendations.

Using registered profiles through Optimizely **Visitor Intelligence** helps
learn what visitors are doing on the site and provides clever suggestions of
relevant content based upon their profile and/or their behaviour. Selena
describes EPG Health's digital approach as ''effectively taking the Amazon model
for product merchandise recommendations and applying it to content for
doctors’’.

Optimizely Content Recommendations helps signpost related content and has meant
a larger proportion of visitors are travelling on rich content journeys, making
their way into key messages.

Optimizely’s CMS, built on Microsoft Azure is fully scalable. In the aftermath
of the COVID-19 pandemic, the majority of Pharma industry congresses have been
replaced with online educational messaging, with Medthority perfectly placed to
handle the additional interest traffic. Visitors have generated 3x as many site
page views compared with the same period in 2019.

'We selected Optimizely based on their forward-thinking roadmap, and stand-out
focus on personalisation features leveraging AI. We’ve only just started to
scratch the surface on what can be achieved using these powerful recommendation
services, and intelligent search features, to deliver a quality interaction.

Selena Smith-Taylor

Digital Project Manager

## **Optimizely’s CMS integrates with multitude of products**

Optimizely’s Expert Services are EPG Health’s delivery partner and much more.
Selena commented that “the [Expert Services] team are like an extension of our
team… always on hand and equally invested in our success and ambitions.”

Working with the Expert Services team, EPG Health have integrated Auth 0 SSO to
simplify registration, enable social sign on and provide a seamless experience
for its users between Medthority and Learn.Medthority, a learning environment
that includes Continuing Medical Education (CME), and is hosted on Moodle. Using
this integration, EPG Health provides healthcare professionals with non-
accredited and accredited CME modules and a dedicated Learning record.

Onsite interactivity for Medthority users is provided through the following
integrationso Podbean for podcastso Vimeo – KOL videos and on demand webinarso
Qualtrics quizzes and surveys supports our understanding of a healthcare
professionals Stages of learning and the tracking of learning objectiveso Click
meeting – Live webinars within the Medthority platform

**Personalized journeys that place EPG Health ahead of the curve**

The ability to deliver personalised updates, sending people on tailored content
journeys, including sequencing of key messages, are all intrinsically linked to
generating good engagement.

Optimizely Marketing Automation enables Healthcare Professionals to stay
informed based on both their stated registered profile, and their onsite
consumption behaviour. The ability to easily generate specialty area roundups,
relevant newsletters, and promote new educational destinations; is key to
developing a habitual, membership economy amongst its users.

**Future Plans**

On a strategic level, EPG Health will continue to expand bespoke iterations of
content to serve new geographies whilst also increasing the level of UX
personalisation for all its users. EPG Health will utilise Optimizely’s Data
Platform to fully harness user segments to tailor content journeys to the needs,
wants & behaviours of specific user types or demographic sub-sets.

As well as continuous iterative development of Medthority, EPG Health plan to
progressively build content nodes (outside of the Medthority environment but on
the same tech infrastructure) to host web based activities for our client
organisations, mirroring and drawing from the feature set and functions
developed for the Medthority website.

EPG Health’s future roadmap with Optimizely will focus on upgrading its website
to Optimizely’s CMS 12 to increase speed. They are also considering acquiring
the Content Marketing Platform to improve its content creation and collaboration
process with clients.

EPG Health and Optimizely will continue their fruitful partnership for years to
come.

#### Industry

Education

#### Products used

- Content Management System
- Recommendations
- Data Platform
- Campaign

#### Customer's website

https://www.epghealth.com/
