# EPOS generates DKK 14.5 billion in annual revenue

EPOS chose Optimizely to support a high-speed global brand launch, rolling out
an immersive online experience with unified digital content and commerce.

## **(Re)Born Digital**

In an amazingly short time, EPOS has emerged as a leading audio brand for Gaming
and Enterprise Solutions. Originally a joint venture between the Sennheiser
Group and Demant, the latter company took over the business and launched EPOS as
a new brand.

A digital journey was set in motion, and just eight months later, EPOS audio
products were ready to ship in more than 160 markets and across 60 currencies.
The journey not only involved building a new brand and tech stack – for the EPOS
team; it also meant leveling up internal processes.

On the agenda was a clear-cut strategy for planning and implementing a digital
infrastructure to drive EPOS’ platforms for B2C sales and B2B leads, one that
combined brand content and commerce.

EPOS sought to leverage automation wherever possible. Selecting the Optimizely
Commerce Cloud as the base for their content hub – the Headless API – provided a
fully flexible architecture that enabled EPOS to support all markets using a
single content platform. With just a few clicks, staff can easily make real-time
changes to pricing, currencies, product range, payment options and much more.

Working with digital commerce solutions specialists Impact, an Optimizely Gold
Solution Partner, EPOS could break down a complex business at record speed and
plan their digital journey. Creating a seamless experience for every EPOS
customer was the number one goal, and to achieve it, cross-functional
collaboration was essential. Across project management, design sparring,
development and content, EPOS’ needs were turned into solutions and implemented
on a global scale.

## **A solid tech foundation**

Developing EPOS’ tech stack involved a digital project with multiple tracks
conducted simultaneously – from ERP (Microsoft AX), CRM, PIM to the new
customer-facing sales-platform, hosted on Azure.

To support B2B and B2C using a single platform, EPOS decided to go with
Optimizely. The Optimizely Commerce Cloud manages the administration of product
catalogs and orders, while Optimizely Search & Navigation provides strong search
and filtering capabilities.

## Award winner: Most Customer-Centric Experience

This award is presented to the Optimizely customer that has leveraged the
Optimizely Content Cloud platform to its full potential and has built and
maintained an outstanding customer-centric experience for end users.

## **About EPOS**

From its headquarters in Copenhagen, Denmark, EPOS designs and distributes high-
end audio for enterprise and gaming on a global scale. EPOS, formerly known as
Sennheiser Communications, was divested from Sennheiser in 2019. EPOS is part of
Demant, a world-leading hearing healthcare and technology group, which is
present in more than 60 countries, employs more than 16,000 people and generates
annual revenue of DKK 14.5 billion.

Company size: 501 - 1,000

Industry: Consumer & Professional Electronics

Region: Nordic

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Commerce Connect

#### Customer's website

http://www.eposaudio.com/

## In collaboration with:

IMPACT A/S

IMPACT is Scandinavia's leading full-service e-commerce consultancy specializing
in digital commerce solutions and experiences that transform businesses.
