# How Etac consolidated into one global site

After rapid international growth, Etac wanted to consolidate its entire business
under one umbrella. That involved building a shared digital estate—a task which
Optimizely is ideally suited.

Etac, which was founded in Sweden, has been growing through acquisitions for
many years and is now an international corporation that develops, designs and
sells ergonomic mobility aids. The heart of the company lies in solutions that
optimize the quality of life for the individual, their family and caregivers.

Etac realized the strategic benefits of consolidating its entire business under
the same brand and creating “One Etac”: This results in a simpler way of
working, as well as clearer and easier communication both with customers and
internally.

Building a strong shared digital presence was an integral part of this strategy.
With a complex internal setup and nine different market websites with country-
specific content, it was challenging for Etac to gather everything under the
same web solution at etac.com. It would also be exacting to complete the project
within the specified time frame of two years. Organizational adaptations and
simplifications were initially required before the actual website could be
built.

The technical complexity posed another major challenge. There were different
product portfolios, cultures and individuals to consider. All components had to
be put into place—basic technology, design and functionality.

## **The solution**

Etac chose to build its new website with Optimizely as a foundation, together
with InRiver PIM for managing product data—a particularly business-critical
function, since Etac.com is a product-based site. Etac hired Consid, Gold
Partner to Optimizely, to manage the project.

Etac now has a unified digital presence and is able to offer a more user-
friendly website where it is easier to find products. Visitors and shoppers
notice the clarity and structure. The new website is also adapted for mobile,
which makes it easy to search for products, etc. One measurable result is that
web traffic to Etac has also increased.

Vår nya sajt som samlar alla varumärken på en gemensam plattform är en
strategisk milstolpe i Etacs utveckling. Vi har lyckats med vår målsättning att
skapa modern sajt som är snabb, snygg och lättnavigerad

Mikael Svensson

Chief Commercial Officer, Etac

## **About Etac**

Etac is an expansive business that offers products for people with reduced
mobility, from young children to seniors, as well as products for patient
transfers and lifting. The company was founded in Sweden in the early 1970s, and
has a reputation for innovative and ergonomic product design. It offers world-
class products for various healthcare situations, which aim to improve activity,
regardless of physical abilities.

Company size: 501-1,000 employees

Industry: Medical Devices

Region: Nordic

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

http://www.etac.com/

## In collaboration with:

Consid AB

Consid is one of Optimizely's fastest growing and most successful digital full-
service partners.
