## \*\*Etex increase traffic, improve scalability and reduce downtime with

Optimizely’s CMS\*\*

Learn how Etex constructed and rebuilt its digital presence after switching from
Sitecore to Optimizely’s Content Management System

## At a glance

- Increased userbase with more than 500 users, meaning more created content
- Utilising Optimizely's CMS has led to a significant increase in traffic and a positive impact on digital revenue
- Improved scalability and multiple integrations

## **A global leader in lightweight construction services**

Etex is a globally organised and locally embedded specialist in lightweight
construction solutions. These include modular systems, fibre cement and
plasterboard systems, applications for cladding, façade, roofing and terrace,
high-performance fire protection and insulation for construction and OEM
applications. The business operates from more than 160 facilities across 45
countries and employs over 13,500 personnel. With revenue of €3.8 billion in
2023, Etex is among the 10 largest Belgium-based companies by revenue.

**A focus on collaboration, sharing and ease of use**

Etex runs 33 different brands and websites. As Digital Product Manager (Web and
Portal) Arne Rotty explained, the company migrated to Optimizely from a Sitecore
legacy system that could not deliver the level of dynamic sharing and cross-
system integrations that Etex strove to achieve.

Specifically, Etex approached Optimizely with a view to implementing a system of
technologies that would allow their marketers to provide customers and prospects
with personalized information and content– to be able to “communicate the right
messaging to the right people, at the right time.” Furthermore, Etex is a
corporation built on sharing, so marketing teams worldwide needed a centralized
platform to share insights, expertise, and feedback.

On top of this functionality, Etex leadership were seeking a solution that would
be easy-to-use, avoiding a complex architecture. Leadership wanted any potential
solution to be simple for marketers to use to ensure that they had exactly what
they needed to immediately create and distribute content, without having to
compromise time by reading an instruction manual. Etex also craved a platform
that would speak directly to a new breed of customer as the profile of a
‘typical’ buyer was shifting.**Working together across multiple websites and
geographies**

Etex worked alongside long-term partner Delaware to find the best Content
Management System (CMS) solution, and soon concluded that Optimizely provided a
better solution than the incumbent Sitecore, or other shortlisted providers such
as Adobe.

Optimizely’s CMS met all Etex’s requirements. Using Optimizely, Etex marketers
quickly realized that they could develop and work with content in a way that
helped them establish and nurture relationships with their end users, while
previously, Etex’s relationship strategy had been limited to contractors.

As Arne Rotty explained, Optimizely’s CMS provides a host of benefits that were
absent from the legacy system. These include enhanced scalability, a shared
component base and a single backend for 33 different websites. Rotty also noted
that Optimizely’s pricing was more competitive and there were additional add-ons
that had not been available previously.

Ease of use was also a critically important factor for Etex’s internal teams.
Rotty remarked that Optimizely’s CMS “works fluently from a content creator
point of view. It is easy and intuitive to navigate and create content. Also,
the ‘shared’ content folder makes its very easy to reuse content.”

Once the new system was in place, downtime became a thing of the past. Rotty
detailed that “the fact that the CMS is hosted as a SaaS solution enables our
marketing personnel to work on their content worldwide without any performance
drops.”

Cross collaboration is also core to Etex’s needs. By using the projects
functionality, a large number of people can work on the platform simultaneously.
In this case, that equates to 550 people at a time creating web content across
33 sites in more than 70 languages.

Optimizely’s CMS works fluently from a content creator point of view. It is easy
and intuitive to navigate and create content. Also, the ‘shared’ content folder
makes its very easy to reuse content.

Arne Rotty

Digital Product Manager (Web and Portal)

**Use of ODP and other integrations**

Etex uses Optimizely Data Platform (ODP) to store customer related data. ODP can
unify customer data, from every source, connecting at a single click to LinkedIn
Lead Gen Ads, HubSpot, Salesforce CRM, and other platforms.

It can be used to build, deploy, and maintain custom integrations quickly and
effectively. ODP then uses unified data to deliver comprehensive customer
profiles, track behaviours, create segments, and activate through downstream
channels.

The Optimizely CMS has also been integrated with multiple other platforms across
the Etex network, including Inriver, Digizuite, SAP, Litmos, Metalocator,
Onetrust and Lionbridge.**Building a content legacy**

Content is king, and central to how Etex establishes touchpoints with their
community, and how they build business relationships. To ensure that every piece
of their content always meets its full potential and reaches every relevant
person throughout varying customer journeys, Etex needed to integrate their CMS
with a digital asset management (DAM) solution.

As Etex conducted their search for a new DAM solution – one that would maximize
their experience with Optimizely – they reiterated their requirements for
digital solutions: a platform that would allow users to provide personalized
end-to-end customer experiences, and one that would also be easy to use.

Digizuite DAM, an Optimizely technology partner, offered a cloud-based DAM
software solution that integrated seamlessly with Optimizely’s CMS, as well as
the customer focus that Etex was accustomed to in their experience with
Optimizely.

“Etex was in the process of moving multiple websites from the previous CMS to
Optimizely, so it made sense that they were looking to add in DAM and PIM
[product information management] solutions,” Peter Toft, Digizuite’s Vice
President of Global Partnerships & Alliance, said. “Getting a DAM was always
part of a larger digital marketing initiative for Etex.”

Etex initially procured the Digizuite DAM to function as a media library so that
users – marketers and the account managers, business development teams who
represent the Etex brand – could effectively manage product related information,
like technical documents and reference cases.

With a growing number of users and assets in the system, Etex has found that
Optimizely and Digizuite function like a well-oiled machine, as if the CMS and
the DAM were one platform.

**Going forward: Upgrading to CMS12 and beyond**

Etex is currently in the process of upgrading to CMS12. Rotty acknowledged that
they approached the project with some trepidation, but they decided to proceed
in January 2024 due to the numerous benefits of upgrading to CMS 12. The
migration is almost complete. He said: “We knew that by postponing, we would
miss out on future upgrades, and it would be a black cloud that kept on
following us. So ultimately, we decided to fully commit and get it done as fast
as possible.”

CMS12 brings significant benefits. Faster page loads equate to lower bounce
rates and increased site engagement, contributing to higher customer
satisfaction and revenue. The upgrade delivers 4x better response time and 5-10x
faster user experiences for actions like Register/Login, Search, and Add to
Cart. It also has three times more server request handling capability. It also
brings increased search ranking and SEO scores based on Google Core Web Vitals.

Furthermore, there are new features and UX benefits that are only available with
CMS12. These enable digital marketers and content editors to take advantage of
faster and more efficient content authoring and an enhanced editing experience,
with a new dashboard experience, in-line block editing, the ability to work with
a page in different view modes and many other features.

As it stands now, one thing is for sure: the story of Etex’s implementation of
each element of its new-and-improved marketing stack has been a successful one.
The deep-running theme of this story is end-to-end collaboration, which is all
too appropriate for Etex, a company that considers collaboration invaluable.
Optimizely is proud to be part of this collaborative effort.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Products used

- Content Management System
- Recommendations
- Data Platform

## In collaboration with:

delaware

We are an entity with 250+ consultants, we continuously invests in improving
customer engagement and omnichannel competences.
