# Florida Division of Emergency Management shares critical info

Florida respond to a global pandemic by moving to the Optimizely Digital
Experience Platform after seeing traffic double overnight

## Dealing with Covid-19 on the digital frontline

As COVID-19 spread throughout the United States, the Governor of Florida issued
a “Shelter in Place” order for the state, directing residents to the Florida
Division of Emergency Management (FL DEM) website at www.Floridadisaster.org as
a single source of information.

The order caused the site traffic to double overnight. The influx on the
existing on-premise infrastructure could not withstand causing latency and
crashes. FL DEM needed a cloud-based solution fast, escalating the issue all the
way to the governor’s office.

## A Cloud-first strategy to facilitate a communicative, digital ecosystem for

all residents

The Optimizely Digital Experience Platform was the cloud-first solution FL DEM
needed, providing high availability and performance, easy connectivity with
other cloud services and existing systems, and the ability to manage drastic
changes in traffic. Optimizely, along with FL DEM’s web partners **Blend
Interactive** and **AAJ Computer Services, Inc dba OZ** , were able to
communicate the need for a Digital Experience Platform and execute an agreement
in less than three days proving, together, the collaborative team could support
their needs from an IT, security, and reliability perspective.

The implementation of Content Cloud highlights the benefit of cloud-based vs an
instance-bound subscription license, with the need expanding beyond COVID-19,
preparing them for the spikes in traffic that occur throughout hurricane season
as well. The Cloud infrastructure, built on Microsoft Azure, means the site
isn't prone to downtime, especially during critical periods.

There were a lot of moving parts to work within a short amount of time,
balancing procurement, partnership, and implementation processes. Working as a
cohesive team enabled agility and efficiently, with a common goal of keeping the
site up as a critical resource for Florida residents. For this project, the goal
was supporting the customer and working with them to execute and have their
environment provisioned in less than 24 hours from receiving an executed
contract.

Because of Blend's expansive experience working with Optimizely, they were able
to help articulate the value of DXP and collaborate with the client's internal
development and IT teams for a seamless transition to the platform.

#### Industry

Education

#### Product used

- Content Management System
