# Fox Rent-A-Car increases email revenue by 300%

## Taking control of customer data

A leading leisure car rental company, Fox Rent-A-Car, focuses on serving budget-
conscious travelers in the U.S. and around the world. Steve Mosinski, Head of
Global Marketing, joined the company after the initial implementation of
Optimizely. He shared with us how data from Optimizely empowered Mosinski to
make impactful changes by organizing campaign schedules, perfecting send times,
and A/B testing email content and design.

Before working with Optimizely, Fox Rent-A-Car used a siloed marketing
automation platform that lacked the customer context across Fox Rent-A-Car's
digital ecosystem. Furthermore, Fox Rent-A-Car's previous solution for email
campaigns lacked the segmentation capabilities needed to maintain a healthy
sender reputation.

Without the customer context and the segmentation to target appropriately, many
emails were deemed irrelevant to customers and routed to spam folders. As a
result, limitations in their technology stack were costing Fox Rent-A-Car big.

At Optimizely, we're on a mission to unlock digital potential. Our market-
leading Digital Experience Platform (DXP) offers brands a composable marketing
technology stack that empowers marketing leaders like Mosinski with control over
their brand's customer data while providing the ease-of-use for confident
creation.

At the core of the DXP is Optimizely Data Platform (ODP), and for brands like
Fox Rent-A-Car, the keys to customer lifecycle marketing.

Since launching advanced segmentation and automation with Optimizely Data
Platform (ODP), Fox Rent-A-Car has seen a 300% YoY increase in email revenue and
successfully restored its email deliverability.

## Maintenance was overdue

By the time Fox Rent-A-Car began using Data Platform, they had emailed over a
million people multiple times a week. As is too often the case for marketers
today, it was challenging to identify bad email addresses and disengaged
customers, which led to high hard bounce rates and a high percentage of spam
trap hits.

Unsatisfactory deliverability, consequently, eroded their sender reputation. So,
in October 2018, the team took a leap of faith. Fox Rent-A-Car decreased send
volumes (to as low as 200,000) to send in smaller batches and perfect
deliverability.

The team scrubbed their database to get rid of stale emails and began segmenting
their customer base with Optimizely's data science algorithms to find insights
hidden from within their customer data.

Then, partnering with Optimizely, they watched deliverability improvement and
started adding back contacts to the list every month.

We had tremendous success focusing on our customers in our emails and providing
logical actions within our email campaigns," says Mosinski, referring to their
highly relevant and beautifully designed emails. "I love the flexibility of
[Data Platform] and that it allows us to create these campaigns. And I love the
investment our customer success manager has in our brand."

Steve Mosinsk

Head of Global Marketing, Fox Rent-A-Car

As a result, their sender reputation has been steadily improving, and they have
reduced spam trap hits by 98% due to their list hygiene practices and
Optimizely's segmentation capabilities.

## Getting back on the road with winning campaigns

Mosinski's strategy to use Data Platform to segment his customer database paid
off.

"We had tremendous success focusing on our customers in our emails and providing
logical actions within our email campaigns," says Mosinski, referring to their
highly relevant and beautifully designed emails.

"I love the flexibility of [Data Platform] and that it allows us to create these
campaigns. And I love the investment our customer success manager has in our
brand," he later added.

Currently, Mosinski is operating four major ongoing campaigns. He sends
newsletters with the week's specials and automated emails to follow up when they
abandon a car reservation flow or browse without a significant event.

Each automated email is personalized with content and offers suggested by Data
Platform to be statistically most likely to convert. The third campaign consists
of extraordinarily successful location-specific post-purchase messages.

Post-purchase emails use recipients' travel destinations to supply even more
personalization. For example, emails share fun information and blog posts about
the traveler's intended destinations.

Mosinski has shared that these campaigns generate an industry-leading average of
32% open rate, 6% click rate, 21% conversion rate.

With fantastic metrics like that, it's no surprise that Mosinski loves starting
his day by looking at his campaign performance dashboards in the Data Platform.

"The analytics are available at once to me. Sometimes it's the first thing I
look at in the morning," said Mosinski.

## Where do we go from here?

Mosinski and the Fox Rent-A-Car team are ahead of the game, and nothing stands
in their way of delighting their customers. As of November 2019, the group runs
an evergreen campaign that distributes information on products and services.

The emails go out every Tuesday and focus on one of the four topics of value,
loyalty, geography, or vehicle fleet type. And as the market changes, the team
will adjust the topics of this flow to remain relevant to their customers.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Data Platform

#### Customer's website

https://www.foxrentacar.com/
