# Commerce Cloud drives revenue for Gardeners Supply Company

Gardener's Supply Company created a world-class shopping experience and is using
data-driven insights to fuel future growth thanks to their new ERP and the
Optimizely DXP.

## Sowing the seeds of a new digital space

Gardener’s Supply Company (GSC) is an employee-owned company providing
environmentally friendly gardening products and information through its website,
catalogues, and retail stores. The company found itself facing growing pains and
needed a digital solution to help them modernize their business operations.

They chose Optimizely DXC as a way to modernize their ecommerce site, provide
their customers with an exceptional online experience, and create a strong
foundation for future growth.

## Platform requirements

The project involved upgrading the ERP system from AX 2009 to AX 2012 R3 to
modernize business operations. In order to scale, GSC needed to implement a new
ecommerce platform to improve online shopping experience for customers and make
a bigger footprint in the digital space. Finally, they had to obtain support and
advice from a Dynamics AX and Optimizely expert to assist in critical projects
that would fuel future growth.

Gardener’s Supply Company needed a digital experience that would allow them to
increase their online presence, attract and retain new customers, and deliver
exceptional service. They chose Optimizely Commerce Cloud for the robust
features it offered, and the ability to segment and personalize messaging to
their customers.

Quote Block (New): New Block

## Flourishing digital experiences to meet customer expectations

After a series of workshops with the GSC team and a thorough review process to
look at their documentation and understand the issues they were facing,
Optimizely partner, Thinkmax came up with a plan to help them establish:
•Standard practices •Solution architecture for AX restructuring, future growth,
and the extensibility of the platform •Connector and related installation and
configuration aligned with their existing Retail Online Store •Scalability and
Performance optimization •Project Governance

The challenge was to get through the implementation with minimal disruption and
before the seasonal catalogue came out. We brought them up to speed with current
retail online best practices, helped them streamline their infrastructure for
greater operational efficiency, and put strong in-depth solutions in place to
unify their retail stack and make them more agile and ready to adapt to the
modern marketplace.

As soon as their new site went live on March 5, 2021, GSC saw incredible
results. Site traffic went through the roof. They had never seen so much
activity before. All that traffic translated into an explosion in sales, earning
them what was normally two months revenue in the first two weeks after launch.

## Critical integrations

Connectivity to Microsoft AX 2012 was critical, as a previous implementation had
left out that important piece of the puzzle. Their existing site was not
providing the customer experience they aimed for, and they were dealing with
some outdated applications and processes not fully integrating with the new site
that were standing in the way of their growth.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Commerce Connect

#### Customer's website

http://www.gardeners.com/

## In collaboration with:

Thinkmax

Thinkmax serves clients across North America and around the world from offices
in Montreal, Toronto, Moncton, and Austin, Texas.
