# Building a seamless digital experience: GMHBA’s success with Optimizely One

Learn how GMHBA unified its digital efforts and improved operational efficiency
by adopting a comprehensive platform for content and experimentation.

## At a glance

- 40-50% Increase in Content Throughput: The marketing team, empowered to manage content independently, significantly increased output and efficiency.
- Cost Savings and Faster Time-to-Market: The ability to publish content without technical support saved nearly one full-time equivalent (FTE), freeing up resources for other projects. Content deployment times dropped to as little as 30 minutes, allowing the marketing team to respond quickly to market changes.
- Improved Performance: The CMS’s integration with the Find add-on optimized page load times, particularly for product searches, enhancing the user experience.
- Faster Experimentation: With the help of Stats Accelerator, GMHBA was able to run more efficient experiments, driving quicker insights and optimizations.

## **Background: A not-for-profit with big ambitions**

GMHBA is an Australian not for profit health insurance and care company
supporting more than 320,000 members on their healthcare journeys. They have
served the community since 1934, and with 90 years’ experience, have become
Australia’s leading regionally based not for profit private health insurer.

Through their personalised approach and exceptional customer service, GMHBA puts
the health and wellbeing of members and communities first. The approach is
guided by their philosophy, Healthier Together and decisions are made with
members first and foremost in mind.

GMHBA manages two brands: the main GMHBA brand and Frank Health Insurance, which
targets younger, digitally savvy customers.

To better serve its customers and modernize its digital infrastructure, GMHBA
turned to **Optimizely One** , a comprehensive digital experience platform that
integrates Optimizely’s Content Management System (CMS) and Web Experimentation
platforms to drive efficient content management and customer experience
optimization.

GMHBA’s journey with Optimizely began in 2018.**The Digital Challenge:
Modernizing a Complex Ecosystem**

Prior to adopting Optimizely One, GMHBA’s digital operations were hampered by an
outdated CMS, which limited its ability to manage content efficiently. The on-
premise system required technical resources for even basic content updates,
causing delays and creating bottlenecks. The marketing team could not publish
content without relying on the development team, slowing down time-to-market for
new campaigns. As a result, GMHBA sought a modern, scalable solution that would
allow them to empower their marketing team and seamlessly integrate with their
existing systems while ensuring scalability and security.

Recognizing the need for a powerful, interconnected platform, GMHBA adopted
**Optimizely One**. This unified solution allowed GMHBA to not only manage
content effectively but also create data-driven experiments to optimize customer
journeys and improve the overall user experience.

Moving to Optimizely’s cloud functionality has been a game-changer for us.
Deployments are easier, and if our internal systems are down, Optimizely is
still up.

Caghan Emirzade

Digital Product Manager, GMHBA

## **Implementation: A collaborative approach**

The implementation of Optimizely One in 2018 was a highly collaborative process.
GMHBA worked closely with Capgemini, its chosen implementation partner, in a co-
creation model. Instead of a traditional hand-off model, GMHBA’s internal
development team worked alongside Capgemini to build and integrate Optimizely
CMS. This approach ensured GMHBA’s team gained the necessary expertise to
maintain and evolve the platform, setting the foundation for long-term success.

Guy Moodie, Head of Digital Product at GMHBA, emphasized that co-creation was a
key success factor. By involving their internal teams early on, GMHBA ensured
they weren’t just adopting a new system—they were building the expertise to
manage it themselves. "The collaboration allowed us to implement Optimizely in a
way that was deeply aligned with our needs, ensuring our development team was
fully capable of maintaining the system," said Guy Moodie.

Optimizely CMS’s cloud-based infrastructure was a game-changer for GMHBA. By
moving from on-premise to the cloud, the organization gained reliability,
scalability, and ease of deployment. As Guy Moodie noted, moving to the cloud
meant that even if internal systems experienced outages, Optimizely One remained
online, allowing the business to continue uninterrupted.

Optimizely is more than just a CMS—it’s a digital experience platform. It’s the
foundational building block that allows us to deliver exceptional digital
experiences.

Guy Moodie

Head of Digital Product, GMHBA

## **Empowering the Marketing Team: Efficiency and Agility**

A primary goal for GMHBA in adopting Optimizely One was to empower the marketing
team to take full control of content management. Prior to Optimizely, the
marketing team relied heavily on technical resources to publish even basic
content updates. Optimizely One’s intuitive CMS allowed the marketing team to
manage content independently, reducing bottlenecks and significantly increasing
output.

Guy Moodie explained that this shift not only increased efficiency but also
saved resources. The ability for non-technical staff to manage content removed
the need for a dedicated content coordinator, allowing GMHBA to reallocate
resources to higher-value activities. Additionally, the CMS’s multi-site
management capability allowed the team to manage both GMHBA and Frank Health
Insurance through a single system, streamlining operations and improving overall
efficiency.

With Optimizely’s CMS, GMHBA’s content throughput increased by 40-50%, and the
marketing team could now deploy content in as little as 30 minutes, a stark
contrast to the previous process. The time-to-market for campaigns improved
dramatically, allowing the team to respond to market opportunities with speed
and agility.

Additionally, the integration of the Find add-on has provided further
operational benefits by significantly improving the performance of GMHBA’s
website. The add-on, used primarily for product searches and comparisons,
optimized page load times, which enhanced the overall user experience. Faster
page loads not only improved user satisfaction but also contributed to higher
engagement, as customers could quickly and easily find the information they
needed, whether they were comparing insurance plans or exploring GMHBA’s
healthcare services.

We saved almost one full time employee by allowing the marketing team to publish
content without relying on the digital team. Our content throughput increased by
40-50%.

Caghan Emirzade

Digital Product Manager, GMHBA

## **Web Experimentation: Building a culture of data-driven decisions**

Alongside the CMS, Optimizely Web Experimentation capabilities enabled GMHBA to
create a culture of continuous optimization and data-driven decision-making.
With Web Experimentation integrated into the Optimizely One platform, GMHBA have
moved beyond basic A/B testing to a more sophisticated approach to
experimentation. The ability to run experiments, gather insights, and iterate
quickly has been central to GMHBA’s digital transformation.

Optimizely One’s **Stats Accelerator** feature proved especially valuable for
GMHBA, which does not have the high traffic volumes of a major retailer. Stats
Accelerator intelligently reallocates traffic to the winning variation in an
experiment, allowing GMHBA to achieve results more quickly despite lower traffic
levels. "For an organization like ours, Stats Accelerator has been invaluable,"
Guy Moodie shared. "It speeds up the optimization process and helps us make
informed decisions faster."

The **Stats Engine** was another feature that helped GMHBA streamline its
experimentation efforts. It provided real-time feedback on experiment
performance and highlighted any issues, such as incorrect traffic allocation,
ensuring that the team could trust the data and focus on meaningful
optimizations.

## **Use Case 1 – Optimizing UX for landing pages**

One of GMHBA’s early and most impactful experiments using **Optimizely One**
centered on optimizing the user experience for its landing pages. The company’s
hypothesis was that presenting too much information upfront in the top of the
funnel could overwhelm users and potentially hinder engagement.

To test this, GMHBA decided to experiment by simplifying the landing pages, .
Instead, they deferred more granular content—such as coverage specifics and
service details—to later stages in the funnel, after users had shown initial
interest by engaging with the primary offerings.

The experiment ran for 100 days to ensure that sufficient data was collected
across all landing pages, given GMHBA’s relatively lower traffic volumes
compared to larger companies. Despite the extended run time, the results were
clear: removing excessive information from the landing pages significantly
boosted click-through rates. Users were more likely to continue through the
funnel when the information was presented in a digestible format, with detailed
content provided when it was most relevant, later in their decision-making
process.

This experiment not only validated GMHBA’s hypothesis but also played a crucial
role in shaping their broader optimization strategy. It highlighted the
importance of serving the right content at the right time to users. By adopting
this approach, GMHBA could ensure that customers remained engaged throughout
their journey, increasing the likelihood of conversions. The insights gained
from this test helped inform future optimization efforts, leading to a more
streamlined, user-friendly digital experience across the company’s web
properties.

The success of this experiment demonstrated the power of **Optimizely’s** Web
Experimentation capabilities, enabling GMHBA to drive data-driven improvements
that significantly enhanced the overall user experience. The ability to
efficiently run experiments and receive actionable insights allowed the digital
team to iterate and refine their strategy, setting the stage for continued
digital innovation.

_Screenshot of old GMHBA landing page_

_Screenshot of new GMHBA landing page_

The Stats Engine made us smarter. It eliminated a lot of noise from our tests
and helped us rely on the data. Also, Stats Accelerator has been a godsend for
us, especially given our lower traffic volumes. It helps us get results faster
and optimize our customer experience.

Caghan Emirzade

Digital Product Manager, GMHBA

## **Future Plans: Expanding the use of Optimizely One**

Looking forward, GMHBA has ambitious plans to further leverage the capabilities
of Optimizely One. A key focus over the next 12 to 18 months will be moving to
**CMS 12** , which will provide enhanced functionality, including better
personalization and digital asset management. This upgrade will enable GMHBA to
further streamline its content processes and deliver more personalized
experiences for both GMHBA and Frank Health Insurance customers.

Additionally, GMHBA is planning to continue its work on funnel optimization,
using Web Experimentation to refine both the acquisition and retention
processes. Funnel optimization will play a critical role in improving conversion
rates and customer engagement, as the company looks to drive further growth in a
highly competitive market.

The company also plans to expand its multi-brand strategy, further integrating
GMHBA and Frank Health Insurance under a unified digital experience. By
leveraging the shared logic within Optimizely One, GMHBA will enhance the
efficiency and consistency of its digital operations while maintaining the
unique identities of each brand.**Conclusion**

GMHBA’s adoption of Optimizely One has been transformative. The integrated CMS
and Web Experimentation platform has enabled the organization to improve content
management, streamline operations, and drive a culture of continuous
optimization. Optimizely One has empowered GMHBA to enhance its digital
experience, optimize the customer journey, and remain agile in an ever-evolving
market.

As Guy Moodie noted, "Optimizely One is more than just a CMS—it’s a complete
digital experience platform that allows us to optimize our customer journeys,
empower our teams, and continually drive growth."

By leveraging Optimizely One, GMHBA has positioned itself to remain at the
forefront of digital innovation in the health insurance industry, delivering
seamless, personalized experiences that meet the evolving needs of its members.

#### Industry

Insurance

#### Products used

- Content Management System
- Web Experimentation
- Optimizely One
- Recommendations

## In collaboration with:

Capgemini International

Capgemini is a global business and technology transformation partner, helping
organizations to accelerate their dual transition to a digital and sustainable
world, while creating tangible impact for enterprises...
