# Grant Thornton improves multi-lingual, multi-market site performance

## An ambition that required a meaningful digital intervention

Grant Thornton is one of the world's largest professional services networks of
independent accounting and consulting member firms. The organization provides
assurance, tax and advisory services to privately held businesses, public
interest entities, and public sector entities.

Grant Thornton needed to improve the performance of its multi-lingual, multi-
market Optimizely site, add new features and improve search functionality. The
site needed to be accessible at high speeds from any of Grant Thornton's
important markets around the globe, but its site speed score of about 40-50
didn't meet that requirement. In addition, the client required support for new
languages and wanted to integrate a new section for gated content.

Optimizely was used to dramatically improve the website’s performance.
Optimizely partner, Niteco integrated Google’s Natural Language machine learning
engine so that Grant Thornton’s entities around the world could use natural
language processing for Chinese, Japanese and Korean. This engine enables
features like sentiment analysis, entity analysis, entity sentiment analysis,
content classification and syntax analysis.

Optimizely outfitted the website with a separate section for gated content. As
the company works with a myriad of clients globally, having relevant documents
and files readily available from anywhere is imperative. To top it off, Niteco
fimplemented Content Security Policy to enhance the site’s security and help to
reduce Cross-site scripting (XSS) risks.

Unhappy with the search functionality on its site, Grant Thornton also asked
Optimizely to give its integration a boost. Optimizely did so by adding Find
Auto-Boosting, which allows for the prioritisation of certain search results
according to age and/or popularity. Optimizely also integrated Find Best Bets,
which allows search administrators to promote selected content, which will then
appear on top of other search results.

Finally Optimizely built an entirely new Lucence index that works together with
the EPI Find index. This guarantees that the site’s availability always stays
above 99%.

Grant Thornton International now enjoys a website that has an improved site
speed score of over 80, up from 40-50.

The improved search functionality makes for a more efficient user experience for
Grant Thornton’s many clients who can now also easily and securely access gated
content. Other features include a new location/office page, a new case
study/campaign page, a Marketo marketing automation connector, email
obfuscation, several new block types as well as media access rights for each
member firm.

#### Industry

Financial services

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

http://www.grantthornton.com/

## In collaboration with:

Niteco AB

Niteco is a global end-to-end digital agency that can support your digital
transformation with consultancy, marketing, design and application management
services in addition to its world-class website...
