# Greater Bank increases page views by 238.6% with personalisation

Greater Bank creates a market-leading solution for its customers with the help
of experimentation and personalised content.

## At a glance

- Call Center experienced no calls to the call center or walk-ins to the branch on the day the new website went live, as customers could now easily self-serve
- 167% increase in page views to the Home Loans section and a 465% increase in Savings Account content due to personalisation and content recommendations\*
- Saved 920 wasted hours a year due to improved workflow alone

Greater Bank is an Australian customer-owned bank and mutual financial
institution with headquarters in Newcastle, New South Wales. Specializing in
financial services for over 70 years, Greater Bank has 260,000 customers and
over $7 billion in assets under management.

## Project objective

Greater Bank is in the process of rolling out a major digital transformation in
the form of a market-leading mobile app and online banking platform for its
customers. Once complete, the innovative solution will re-invent the online
banking and mobile app experience for users.

As part of the process, Greater Bank decided it would concurrently replace its
website Content Management System (CMS) and rebuild the customer website and
mobile app. This was to enable the creation of consistent experiences from the
website into online banking, including the mobile app. The new CMS would improve
workflow and efficiency, such as the ability to preview website content before
going live, assign responsibility and control of content, and provide a
streamlined production process. The outcome eradicated an estimated 920 wasted
hours a year due to improved workflow alone.

Additionally, Greater Bank wanted to improve the digital customer experience and
provide bespoke and personalized content, via content recommendations and
personalization for customers.

Quote Block (New): New Block

## The solution

After an extensive sourcing process, Greater Bank and their digital partner
Fusion selected Optimizely’s platform as the best solution.

Optimizely’s Content Cloud was one of the very few solutions that had the
ability to execute all of Greater Bank’s requirements. It also enabled the
implementation of personalization features across digital assets, and Greater
Bank appreciated how their technology and IT teams would easily be able to use
those features.

Powered by AI learning capabilities, Optimizely's platform is able to deliver
real-time content recommendations to users, along with a personalized journey as
they navigate through the website or mobile app. For example, users visiting the
website today that happen to be researching home loans, would be greeted by
relevant products and content if they returned to the website tomorrow and
received a completely personalized home loan experience.

## **The results**

Optimizely’s platform along with Fusion’s experience in human centered design
has helped Greater Bank create a market-leading solution for its customers. The
ultimate measure of the success achieved from the project was evident on the day
the solution went live; the bank’s contact center didn’t receive a single call,
nor did the branch experience walk-ins about the new website – the solution was
so intuitive and user friendly that customers were able to quickly and easily
self-serve.

Two of the major benefits the bank is experiencing since adopting the Optimizely
solution are the advancements in content recommendations, as well as the inbuilt
personalization for delivering content to its customers. Also, solving other
issues around workflow and production pain points.

Due to the implementation of Optimizely, various teams across the business are
now benefiting from a number of improvements. Content recommendations, content
personalization, and the ability to update the website in real-time have
resulted in the business meeting all of its pre-project objectives.

“Optimizely is a solution that’s powerful enough to enable and support such a
huge transformation, but simple enough to be easily used by the whole team,”
said Craig Newham, Group Executive Sales Marketing & Distribution at Greater
Bank. “Both the Optimizely and Fusion teams have helped make all this possible,
and because of that, we have seen incredible outcomes at Greater Bank”.

As a key contributor to this transformation project, Optimizely’s solution
partner, Fusion has helped Greater Bank continue their mission to put the
customer first.

“In the highly regulated industry of Financial Services, it’s extremely
difficult to differentiate parity products. Delivering a compelling customer
experience is the only way to create a sustainable competitive advantage. How do
you achieve this outcome when the majority of customer interactions are via
digital channels?” said Damien Mair, Founder and Director at Fusion.

“Simple. You personalize the digital experience. For over six months, Fusion
worked intimately with the Greater Bank team, to strategize, design and
implement a highly personalized ‘digital branch’ built upon the foundations of
the Optimizely platform. Taking advantage of Optimizely’s experimentation and
content recommendation tools, Greater Banks’ hyper-personalized digital
experience is continually delivering outstanding business results. There is a
big pay-off to being digitally personable”.

Fusion was able to provide improved speed to market for Greater Bank by using
their Digital Branch Product, powered by Optimizely. Working alongside the
Greater Bank and Optimizely teams, Fusion reached a production deploy in just
three months. In addition, Fusion integrated Optimizely’s Content
Recommendations product that has provided additional value for Greater Bank and
their members.

“Greater Bank has a great team that understands and anticipates the digital
needs of their members. Their passion, experience and collaboration helped
Fusion deliver an experience their members love,” said Mair.

## **The metrics**

Since launch, the Greater Bank team has been able to easily and successfully
launch a dozen personalization experiments via the Optimizely platform,
including the imminent full personalization of the bank’s homepage.

Since launch, the Greater Bank website's home loans section experienced an
increase of 167% in page views. The Savings Account content also saw an increase
of 465% in page views due to the personalization and content recommendations
provided by Optimizely. The overall results suggest a page view increase of
238.6% when comparing content recommendations that are not personalized vs.
personalized recommendations.

\*For period 27 April 2021 (Launch date) to 27 September 2021

#### Industry

Financial services

#### Products used

- Recommendations
- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

https://www.greater.com.au/
