# Helen OY provides energy across Finland in a personalized fashion

Creating a nationwide consumer and business experience, on a single platform.
Finland’s largest energy company use Optimizely as their always-on digital
platform provider

## The powerhouse of the North create a consumer and business platform, on a

single digital ecosystem

One of Finland’s largest energy companies, Helen OY operate core business
activities across energy production, district heating and cooling, solar power
systems, and energy distribution. With growing awareness of climate change,
coupled with entering new markets, they shared how they are using their
portfolio of digital tools to overcome challenges and create a more engaging
customer experience.

The Northern Europe energy giant publish new services based on business needs on
the Optimizely Content Cloud. They use the best-in-class CMS to quickly create
new pages with advanced features for personalization and Marketing Automation to
further increase engagement with business and consumer customers.

New business areas such as, ‘solar solutions’ requires new, differentiated
digital solutions to address new market needs and expectations. This forms the
ever-evolving requirements from Helen OY who need a robust, yet scalable digital
infrastructure to support their 500,000 customers.

Quote Block (New): New Block

## The Optimizely ecosystem

What does success look like to a rapidly growing energy firm? It’s a combination
of more customers on the site, higher conversion rates, and a fluid user
experience. To make this a reality, Helen OY combine the power of Optimizely
Content Cloud with Optimizely Marketing Automation to deliver a sustained
engagement with customers, whether corporate accounts or consumer. Optimizely's
capabilities allow Helen to create content fast and easily and has enabled new
ways of marketing.

## Responding to a climate-aware audience through digital

Optimizely supports organizations to compete digitally by providing customer-
centric experiences and that’s what plays to Helen’s advantage. The Finnish team
strive to develop new solutions for increasingly cleaner energy production and
sustainable consumption, with a focus on the environment, customer experience,
financial responsibility, and communication. With these key values, it’s clear
that in order to achieve further growth, the customer must be at the heart of
all operations.

Helen have established new business units for customer experience and have
started to implement customer experience processes based around the Optimizely
platform. This includes personalization, part of the Content Cloud. Visitor
groups are employed to create customer segmentation, enabling Helen to learn
more about online behavior. Another personalization piece revolves around A/B
testing. Tracking enhances personalized content creation even further. Helen
deploy intelligent tactics to create better experiences for differing customers
with varying needs. For example, new customers can order electricity or energy
contracts from the site, without registration or login required.

## A changing landscape

A new breed of ‘GreenTech’ products and services are playing a more important
role all the time within the energy industry. Helen are responding by allowing
customers to get more data from their Helen services (reports, API) to
understand and maintain their own energy use. This boosts customer self reliance
in operating their energy account and leads to customers getting a better sense
of their environmental impact.

By leveraging Optimizely Content Cloud and Optimizely Marketing Automation,
Helen enjoy a fast, straight-forward production deployment with SEO optimization
and stronger conversion rates. This is wrapped up with multiple integrations to
more than 30 systems. Analytics, profiling of users to name but a few, help
create a digital ecosystem that is scalable on Optimizely’s Cloud.

## Handling peaks in energy usage

Even though Helen have the one, central site, they are winning the battle to
serve all customers. From the look and feel point of view, it's quite consumer-
focussed. The team often see the heaviest traffic volumes between 2:00 PM and
4:00 PM on weekdays. This suggests customers are opting to check their energy
accounts whilst at work, an interesting takeaway for the team.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Products used

- Content Management System
- Campaign

#### Customer's website

https://www.helen.fi/

## In collaboration with:

TietoEVRY

We are a digital power house and one of the largest in customer experience in
the Nordics.
