# Helix Sleep drives more revenue by sending fewer emails

## Thinking outside the box

Helix Sleep is an ecommerce company that delivers made-to-order mattresses based
on the belief that sleep is a personal activity, and your bed should reflect
that. Though the bed-in-a-box is their hero product, Helix Sleep also sells
pillows, bases, bedding, and more to provide you with an uninterrupted night's
sleep.

"The traditional mattress experience was awkward, and the showroom experience
was a bit unpleasant," said Laur Fiatoa, Senior Growth Marketing Manager at
Helix Sleep.

"With the growth of online bed-in-a-box competitors, there are a lot of one-
size-fits-all models. However, at Helix Sleep we truly wanted to provide
everyone with a different solution for their different sleep needs and create an
individualized, personalized solution for a universal problem," she said.

The problem for Helix Sleep was matching their personalized products to a
personalized digital experience. They were snoozing on the opportunity to match
customers to a discovery process that helped them understand what Helix Sleep
could do for them.

## Personalized marketing was just a dream

At Helix Sleep, Fiatoa had ambitious growth targets. To reach her goals, she
knew she needed a way to ensure Helix Sleep provided customers with the best and
most personalized digital experience possible, all while progressing customers
towards purchase. She knew she had to find the perfect balance to accelerate the
customer journey. The key to her strategy was using data to validate messages
but that required sending a lot of emails.

Over-emailing was top of mind for Fiatoa.

When Helix Sleep first started email marketing, they sorted customers into three
primary buckets: traditional prospects, those who took their sleep quiz and
saved their results, and customers.

However, because these segmented lists were predetermined, it created a one-
dimensional view of their customers and led to mass email sends with little-to-
no message personalization.

A widespread problem many marketers face occurs when curious shoppers show
interest in several products at once.

For Helix Sleep, this meant that there was also the potential that customers
could enter multiple different campaigns at once. As a result, the customer's
content wouldn't reflect where they were in the customer journey or their true
interests.

Quote Block (New): New Block

Each product in the Helix catalog has a specific ideal buyer and different value
propositions with corresponding SKUs (stock-keeping units). Again, Fiatoa wanted
to create unique email sequences for each product line. Customers would get
different content depending on whether they were a better fit, say, for an eco-
friendly Birch Natural Mattress rather than the best-selling Helix LUXE
Moonlight.

For Fiotoa, deciding to enroll customers in email sequences manually felt like
guessing. That's where Optimizely Data Platform (ODP), part of Optimizely's
market-leading Digital Experience Platform (DXP), comes in to help with data
science and behavioral targeting.

Like Laur Fiotoa, marketers and merchandisers from over 9,000 brands trust
Optimizely to power the digital experience with personalization at scale. To
ensure the right message finds the right customer at the right time, Data
Platform will harmonize data from across the digital ecosystem and create a
unified view of the customer experience in a real-time profile. From there,
brands like Helix Sleep are empowered to act on customer behavior to deliver
outsized outcomes.

## Data Platform's harmonized data powers customer-centric campaigns

Fiatoa knew that when consumers make a more significant purchase like a
mattress, there is often a long cycle of consideration and research before the
purchase is made. People want to make sure that they get the right product, and
they can return to the website repeatedly for months at a time and engage with
many distinct products before making a final purchase.

With all that research, the need to know each shopper's entire digital footprint
is paramount.

For Helix Sleep, 89% of their traffic came from anonymous shoppers, and 14%
would make multiple visits a month. With all of that complexity, how does one
begin to personalize when so much is unknown about the shopper, and conflicting
signals complicate understanding? Without knowing who the customer is, or what
product interests them most

With identity resolution from Data Platform, brands and retailers can resolve
unknown sessions into customer profiles and stitch previously anonymous activity
into verified records. Knowing the customer can mean the difference between a
conversion and the competition.

Without an earlier conversion, such as submitting a form or a purchase, you may
be asking yourself, but how can brands take all that anonymous activity and
create a relevant experience? That's where Data Platform has been a mighty help
for Helix Sleep.

"Now, we look at segmentation in a far more comprehensive way due to the
technology and data capabilities that [Data Platform] provides," said Fiatoa.

Fiatoa's team can use priority groups in Data Platform to see prospects who take
specific actions and, as a result, qualify for multiple campaigns
simultaneously. Then, Helix Sleep can more accurately identify the most relevant
campaigns for individual customers via reporting in Data Platform.

In this way, Helix Sleep can use segments to engage with buyers. They're
nurtured based on their level of intent and which products are most likely to be
valued based on their interactions with the brand and variety of products Helix
Sleep offers.

For example, if a buyer viewed the Helix Midnight product page but saved the
Helix Dusk, that person probably has a higher intent for the latter product. At
scale, events like these are analyzed by Data Platform's data science models.
Data Platform will train itself on your audience with machine learning. Every
data point captured means more accuracy for predictions and recommendations.
Through recommendations and segmentation, the Helix Sleep team can personalize
down to the individual for each campaign.

By using the more relevant priority groupings, Helix Sleep meets the customer
where they are before the customer is even ready to convert. As a result, Helix
Sleep supplies the best possible marketing content â€” rather than blasting out
the same content to everyone.

Previously, Helix Sleep was only able to segment upon those who fell into one of
the three large buckets at one point or another and hope their email marketing
was accurate. Now, with Data Platform, the Helix Sleep team leverages data
science models to predict the best-next steps for each customer with the click
of a mouse.

## Results that help the Helix team sleep at night

Not only did priority groups increase the conversion rate by 13%, but Helix
Sleep also saw a 16% increase in open rate and a 27% decrease in unsubscribes.
It may sound counterintuitive, but Helix Sleep is sending fewer emails while
getting better results due to targeting and personalization.

"When you're giving your customers the journey they're intending, they're more
likely to engage. And more importantly, they're less likely to get annoyed by
your emails," said Fiatoa.

Suppose you have a customer that could enter multiple lists for automated
campaigns. In that case, Fiatoa encourages you to try priority groups to make
sure that you're sending them to the most relevant products for that exact point
in their journey.

"When you're giving your customers the journey they're intending, they're more
likely to engage. And more importantly, they're less likely to get annoyed by
your emails. Now, we look at segmentation in a far more comprehensive way due to
the technology and data capabilities that [Data Platform] provides."

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Data Platform

#### Customer's website

https://helixsleep.com/
