# The art of taking omnichannel to the next level

For HiFi Klubben, omnichannel is a given. They know that selling premium audio
online requires physical stores. Customers want to be able to feel, see and
listen. So it doesn't matter whether a purchase is completed online or in the
store in town – the key thing is that the various channels support one another.

As part of greater redesign and strategy work, HiFi Klubben wanted to create the
ultimate omnichannel experience. The idea was that the five e-shops and the
chain’s 95 physical stores in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Germany and the
Netherlands will be part of the same customer journey, without friction between
channels.

To implement the new venture, HiFi Klubben turned to Impact, e-commerce
specialists and Optimizely Gold Solution Partner in Denmark. Impact was given an
overall task that included everything from strategic consulting, a new IT
architecture based on microservices to implementation, where a completely new
website was built with Optimizely as the engine.

With its new platform, HiFi Klubben has built up a large digital showroom filled
with inspiration and advice. The company is very careful to communicate quality
here as well, in order to dispel any uncertainty about buying exclusive audio
systems online.

One of the benefits of Optimizely, which means a lot to HiFi Klubben, is that
the platform supports multiple languages and enables coordinated campaigns.
Relevant user roles have been defined, so that a number of editors in the
different countries can work together to produce attractive content about the
company’s audio products.

With its new platform, HiFi Klubben has strengthened the collaboration between
e-commerce and the physical stores, for example by allowing customers to collect
their order in-store or book a free listening experience. On the product pages
they can see when the demo system is available and the stock status of the
products. This strengthens the customers’ connection to HiFi Klubben and their
local stores.

In parallel with the digital initiative, the physical stores have also been
refurbished. They are increasingly being used as demo rooms with a focus on the
listening experience. All items can be sent very quickly from the main
warehouse, either to the store or directly to the customer. Sales reps can
complete a purchase anywhere in the store using tablet or mobile as the only
tool.

## **Product data enhances the purchasing experience**

For HiFi Klubben, it was important to develop the use of product data to
disseminate knowledge and radiate the same professionalism in digital channels
that customers have always experienced in physical stores.

Previously, product data was handled directly in the e-commerce platform, which
limited the use of the content to the actual website. Communication, file
transfer and translations were sent via e-mail and there were many Excel
spreadsheets to keep track of product launches and priorities. This resulted in
unstructured processes and long lead times.

With HiFi Klubben’s Optimizely solution complemented by InRiver PIM for product
data management, product data routines have become more efficient. It’s quicker
to set up new products in the e-shop, and particularly important launches can be
prioritized. Contact with translators can now be managed directly in the system,
and it’s also easy for suppliers to help enrich content.

More importantly, the focus on product data has significantly improved the
purchasing experience. The customer is met by product descriptions that are
considerably longer than usual and can access expert assessments of products, as
well as links to tests and accessories.

We have moved from unstructured to structured data that is searchable and
filterable, and it has become easier to edit products in bulk. In the long term,
product data will create great value for us.

Karsten Birkelund

Director, eCommerce & Omnichannel, HiFi Klubben

## **About HiFi Klubben**

HiFi Klubben is Europe’s largest specialist chain within high-quality sound,with
more than 95 physical stores in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Germany and the
Netherlands, as well as five national online stores. HiFi Klubben has a wide
range of test-winning stereo and home cinema solutions so that the customer can
always find the right solution at the right price.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Commerce Connect

#### Customer's website

http://www.hifiklubben.se/

## In collaboration with:

IMPACT A/S

IMPACT is Scandinavia's leading full-service e-commerce consultancy specializing
in digital commerce solutions and experiences that transform businesses.
