# Home Instead manages more than 650 franchise websites

Home Instead had a key initiative to introduce a new digital brand presence for
their corporate and more than 650 franchise websites

## One, unified instance for global operations

Home Instead Senior Care (HISC) is a network of franchises specialising in
relationship-led care for the elderly. Founded in Nebraska in 1994, HISC now has
over 650 franchised sites globally. The company services span the care
continuum, from companionship and personal care to specialised Alzheimer's care
and hospice support.

Home Instead Senior Care needed a centralised platform to introduce new
franchisees to the group and to provide content for its current customers. The
centralised platform needed to house 650 sites as well as a new corporate
website. The sites would have more than 15,000 pages of content that needed to
feature consolidated design and language.

## Providing digital access for positive outcomes

Home Instead chose Optimizely to help architect, manage, develop and launch the
new digital experience to serve as the catalyst for a brand redesign and re-
platform, setting the foundation for a flexible and scalable solution for their
caregivers looking for work, and seniors who seek care.

The Optimizely team utilized the SCORE for Optimizely accelerator to help win
this opportunity, because of some key components and the unique,
marketing/visual-first authoring it provides. They also developed a new design
language system to dramatically improve site accessibility.

In addition, Optimizely began a net-new engagement on HISC’s North America and
international franchise development sites, which will be reimagined and migrated
onto the Optimizely instance.

The new 15,000-page site has been a huge success and runs a 90+ rating across
the Site Improve tool scoring system, which was used to help test and identify
any issues against SEO and AA compliance

Optimizely will continue to support the project and will be integral to all
future management and development of the technology. HISC relaunched its brand
and consolidated its franchisee messaging, ensuring a consistent experience for
customer families. Custom analytics allows for real-time site improvements.

#### Industry

Tech

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

https://www.homeinstead.com/

## In collaboration with:

Perficient, Inc.

Perficient blends the strategic imagination of an agency with the deep technical
acumen of Perficient’s established consultancy background to deliver exceptional
customer experiences for the world’s biggest...
