# Hunter Engineering's evolution in content and digital Commerce boosts leads by

88%, traffic by 72%, and monthly order volume by 20%

#### **Outdated content production process**

Outdated content production process: Manual content editing using pen and paper
slowed approvals and delayed production

#### **Content Marketing Platform**

Using Optimizely’s Content Marketing Platform, Hunter Engineering ditched
outdated content production methods and centralized content to a cloud-based
solution where employees can create, collaborate, and manage content and
approvals.

> ###### Hunter's marketing transformation: Cloud-native solution \*\*enhances
>
> content collaboration\*\* and boosts employee morale.

#### **Limited commerce platform**

Hunter Engineering found it difficult to manage multiple users on their CMS,
leading to stagnant adoption and usage.

#### **Commerce Connect**

Hunter’s partner team crafted an engaging site experience that could extend
their brand globally and empowered non-technical users to curate engaging,
content-driven buying experiences.

> ###### Hunter's growth: **88% YoY increase in digital leads** , 20% monthly
>
> rise in order volume, and **72% more site traffic**

#### **Need for intuitive technology**

Platform onboarding was time consuming and stifled collaboration and site fixes.

#### **Content Management System**

Hunter launched personalized content experiences and streamlined product catalog
management for their e-commerce site.

> ###### **Enhancing Customer Experience** : Hunter Engineering uses Commerce
>
> Connect's PaaS to create **tailored digital interactions**.
> Discover how Optimizely One can seamlessly integrate your entire marketing
> lifecycle into one unified workflow. Learn more now.

## Challenge

Hunter Engineering, a leading automobile service equipment manufacturer, wanted
to rethink digital growth. It was 2019 and Hunter had just partnered with
Optimizely to utilize its market-leading CMS solution. Hunter was no longer
investing in MarTech headaches, but real outcomes.

However, what laid on the horizon for Hunter as they launched their revamped
site in Q1 2020, would shift priorities at the top of every executive’s list.

The COVID-19 pandemic forced buyers to turn to digital purchasing. Pandemic-
induced social restrictions meant buyers turned to digital channels to conduct
business, and in the world of B2B, where reliable purchasing and fulfillment is
business-critical, Hunter found themselves needing to make a chess move. Their
customers, who conducted business online, over-the-phone, and in-person, now
required trusted online purchasing. Instead of pulling back and cutting costs,
Hunter invested in customer experiences and satisfaction – launching commerce to
come out stronger and more reliable to customers throughout the pandemic.

Furthermore, with their legacy CMS solution previously limiting how employees
could create and manage content online, and now running on Optimizely, Hunter
was equipped with the technology and strategy to take their business into the
digital age.

Yet, what became quickly apparent with a new, scalable CMS solution was a more
deep-rooted challenge: their team was not digitally enabled to generate content
at a rapid pace, minimizing their potential for digital transformation and
continued industry leadership.

Recognizing the multi-faceted challenge amid a global pandemic, Hunter put faith
into their new partner, Optimizely, to support their growth through content,
marketing, and e-commerce challenges using a single, unified platform:
Optimizely One.

## Solution

From 2019 to 2023, Hunter Engineering, with Optimizely as their e-commerce and
marketing software partner, achieved total digital transformation across their
e-commerce site and internal marketing workflows.

**This outcome was based on two key initiatives** :

- Launch an intuitive content management system and robust commerce backend built for scale
- Modernize content production, collaboration, and workflows

By partnering with Optimizely, Hunter Engineering took a targeted approach to
solving marketing challenges across the entire marketing lifecycle, helping
Hunter respond to market volatility with growth and customer satisfaction. This
strategic transformation required key capabilities and support from Optimizely
to bring the vision to life. Now, let’s uncover how Optimizely was best
positioned in technology and strategy to help Hunter Engineering win.

#### Building for Scale: Using a trusted Content Management System to grow the

bottom line

What launched Hunter Engineering from industry leader to global champion of
automobile service equipment was their investment in Optimizely’s Content
Management System. As Hunter peered into the 2020s, they identified a few key
areas their CMS needed to support their strategy. 1) They need a CMS solution to
integrate without blowing up costs 2) They want to provide exceptional customer
experiences 3) They want to scale that exceptional customer experience globally.

Choosing Optimizely, Hunter Engineering coordinated with implementation partners
who accelerated integration and customization processes of the Optimizely-driven
site. Optimizely’s PaaS CMS solution offers organizations the ability to develop
truly bespoke and brand-driven experiences that delight customers and improve
engagement while increasing conversions. Wanting to take full advantage of
Optimizely’s CMS capabilities, and being pleased with early results, Hunter
added six new in-house developers to ensure they were continually developing and
improving their site.

Secondly, Hunter placed an intense focus on personalization. Hunter creates a
personalized experience based on zip codes and location for customers to connect
with local representatives who can have a face-to-face conversation with buyers
to help guide them through a purchase.

Lastly, being built for scale, Hunter used improved admin roles, permissions,
and workflows to enable their marketing team to create without restrictions.
Goodbye to the days fighting for licensing during new hire onboarding.

Optimizely is a catalyst for international growth, working with over 1,000
organizations across the globe. Optimizely's CMS solution enables organizations
to deliver multi-site, language, and regional experiences that make it easy for
anyone, just about anywhere, to complete a purchase online. Now adding their
9th(!) language translation of their site, Hunter Engineering is growing their
global footprint and helping lead the market in automobile service equipment
manufacturing.

#### Boosting sales, permanently: Optimizely’s Commerce Connect

During the second half of 2020, Hunter Engineering felt the impact of global
consumer trends shift to more online purchasing. With Optimizely’s Commerce
Connect, Hunter launched their customer portal, allowing customers to connect
with local salespeople, purchase replacement parts, and execute due diligence on
purchasing new Hunter products. Having a trusted digital presence where
customers could execute purchases enabled Hunter to remain competitive during
greater economic headwinds.

As a PaaS deployment, Hunter first relied on partners’ developers to craft a
compelling site, later on, taking advantage of Optimizely’s ability to scale,
they employed an in-house team to create engaging content and product
experiences that generate interest, guide customers to purchase, and give them a
reason to come back.

Globalization, integrating homegrown solutions, and optimizing commerce
experiences is where Hunter is focused now, and with Commerce Connect, they are
able to grow without risking frustrating their employees with a less than ideal
commerce platform.

#### Creating a modern marketing team: Optimizely’s Content Marketing Platform.

Hunter Engineering realized they needed change but lacked the partner to help
initiate it. After three years working with Optimizely to launch their CMS and
Commerce solution, a more human challenge awaited them: Now equipped with a
modern CMS and commerce solution, how can Hunter Engineering create content that
is worth delivering to customers at a global scale?

“We were printing out brochures and web pages, handwriting notes, scanning it
in, emailing it to another, and rinse and repeating – it was chaos.” Tommy
Maitz, Director of Marketing, Hunter Engineering

Instead of continuing to build content through outdated and siloed methods and
channels, Hunter, from top-to-bottom, committed to digital, injecting real-time
collaboration and transparency into workstreams to produce high quality work at
scale.

“Using a free version of the platform (CMP), we showed our executive team how it
would be used for project and campaign management... they clearly saw the
value.”

In CMP, Hunter can centralize campaign planning with total visibility into
everything teams are creating and who’s creating it – boosting collaboration and
improving content quality. Also, integrating with solutions like Microsoft Teams
and Jira empowers their entire organization to deliver expert insight into
content and marketing.

Without CMP, you’re looking at emails, teams' messages, notes and more. Using
CMP is Hunter committing to the digital age and wanting to do it in a better
way.

Tommy Maitz

Director of Marketing, Hunter Engineering

Hosting several major trade shows, launching multiple new products, and running
dozens of campaigns a year and entering the arena of content-first marketing,
Hunter uses Optimizely’s Content Marketing platform to keep teams organized,
informed, and empowered to create meaningful work.

## Results

Hunter Engineering’s partnership with Optimizely was nothing short of a success.
After implementing Optimizely’s CMS, Hunter has seen a 72% increase in website
traffic.

From November 2020 to May 2022, Hunter saw, on average, a 20% MoM increase in
order volume — solidifying digital as a strong customer engagement channel for
Hunter.

And finally, CMP has empowered employees to become more efficient, improve
feedback, and help foster a culture of high-quality collaboration.

I don’t know that I can place a value on CMP...when you don’t have a centralized
solution like CMP, it’s chaos.

Tommy Maitz

Director of Marketing, Hunter Engineering

Now, Hunter Engineering is poised for further success. They launched a
customized and trusted CMS solution to increase content production and improve
delivery. They launched a digital commerce channel where buyers can complete
purchases without human assistance, improving revenue growth, and releasing a
knot in employee collaboration and communication needed for growth.

Looking forward, Hunter is investing in their shift to digital. Focusing on
global rollout of their website, Hunter is forging their path as a digital
leader in manufacturing.

“One of the biggest benefits of Optimizely has been the ability to scale - to
take on challenges we’ve known we’ve wanted to take on but have never had the
right partner. We’re all in on Optimizely.”

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Products used

- Commerce Connect
- Content Management System
- Content Marketing Platform
- Optimizely One
