# Optimizely transforms Hyster Yale Group’s digital ecosystem

Optimizely transforms Hyster Yale Group’s digital ecosystem

Hyster-Yale Group (HYG) is one of the world’s largest forklift truck
manufacturers with global headquarters located in Cleveland, Ohio. HYG designs,
engineers, manufactures, sells and services a comprehensive line of lift trucks
and aftermarket parts. These are primarily marketed under the Hyster® and Yale®
brand names. The business covers hundreds of end-user applications in more than
770 industries.

HYG wanted to create a more meaningful relationship with its customers,
prospects, partners and dealers in a digital-first world and make it easier to
do business with them. Product innovations within the area of lift trucks, such
as IOT, robotics and automation, increase the complexity of HYG’s offerings,
accelerating the need to move the offering from just the physical product (the
lift truck) to more value-added solutions. With the market becoming more
competitive in the solution-oriented area, HYG needed to reimagine its digital
experiences to be able to communicate a more complex value offering and create a
digitized buying journey for its customers.

HYG chose Optimizely’s customer success team to help refine and enhance the
identity of the Hyster and Yale global brands in a Digital First world and
leverage a common technology platform from which to build the two sites. This
would enable the company to recognize customer journeys across the two brands
but also distinguish them enough for clarity of which brand is more appropriate
in which scenarios.

Optimizely began the engagement with an in-depth, ‘outside-in’ study of the two
brands, harnessing insights from surveys and interviews to assess the market’s
perception of their relative positioning.

This was complemented through a digital insights exercise that was able to
assess the actual positioning according to the websites’ current messaging and
semantics utilized. Understanding this positioning gap, while also assessing the
competitive positioning outside of the two HYG brands, empowered Vertic to
create a ‘Brand Eye’ strategy that defined the differentiation points and what
they inferred for digital brands interpretation.

Optimizely’s extensive research continued to recognize subsequent content and
functionality requirements at each stage of each brand’s customer buying
journey, enabling HYG to recognize relevant aspects of the website build that
could scale across the two brands while building out the content strategy.
Together with the ‘Brand Eye’, this led to recommendations of new content or
changes in content that aligned with each brand’s audience’s expectations of
more solution-oriented information.

The UX and design of the two websites included the creation of a design system,
which would enable scale of the web build by combining modules for the two
companies’ web properties, with recommendations of cross-brand usage according
to matching steps and need in the customer experience.

Optimizely’s Digital Experience Platform was used to create the two separate
sites, Hyster.com and Yale.com which were built to scale with dynamic
customisation, brand touchpoint and profile information and much better
reflected the brands evolution.

Check out www.hyster.com and www.yale.com to see the results

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Customer's website

https://www.hyster-yale.com/
