# IBT Industrial builds industry leading ecommerce platform with Optimizely

## At a glance

- 6,533% increase in site visitors from email campaigns
- 20% increase in new products purchased by online customers
- Increase in time- and cost-savings

## **IBT Industrial’s customer-first approach**

With more than seven decades of success in the industrial supply field, IBT
Industrial has grown from a humble mom-and-pop store founded in 1949 to an
industry-leading force with 38 branches across nine states primarily in the
Midwest.

IBT Industrial is a top industrial supplier focusing on small to mid-market
manufacturing and industrial spaces. The business specializes in maintenance,
repair and operations (MRO) products and has SMEs to support customers from
agriculture, food and beverages, manufacturing and grain who are undergoing MRO
works.

As the needs of customers are unique, IBT Industrial’s sales representatives are
equipped with a broad knowledge of industrial products, from bearings to gears.

From day one of this family-owned business, staying in tune with its customers’
wants and needs has been the key to IBT Industrial’s success. One way it
achieves this is by investing in its employees. With a three-year training
program for new joiners and an average employee tenure of 15 years, IBT
Industrial employees build long-lasting relationships with customers by solving
problems with their deep understanding of industry needs.

## **The changing needs of digital-first customers**

As its business grew, IBT Industrial invested in PunchOut and Electronic Data
Interchange (EDI) for its procurement process to manage its non-exhaustive
catalog and provide convenience to customers. IBT Industrial wanted to make sure
that it was well-equipped for the newer, younger and more digitally savvy buyers
that were entering the industry.

However, the IBT Industrial team soon realized that their digital channel had
much room for improvement, as two in three customers interacting with IBT
Industrial were looking for ways to self-serve including retrieving invoices,
browsing purchase history and more.

Despite its relentless pursuit of meeting and going beyond customer
expectations, IBT Industrial did not have a digital channel and ecommerce
solution for engaging customers in mid-sized industrial distribution. This
revelation came four years ago in 2018.

Paul Stubitsch, Chief Information Officer of IBT Industrial, shared that the
team spent nine months analyzing the industry, competitors and themselves to
determine their next steps. The conclusion? Embarking on a digital
transformation journey was necessary for the business' survival.

IBT Industrial knew it had to act fast to keep up with other industry leaders.
It needed a digital solution that would help to:

- Convey IBT Industrial’s value to customers in an impactful manner
- Simplify IBT Industrial’s complex offerings and services
- Address the shift in demographics of customers and employees to a digital-first approach
- Expand ways to communicate and engage with customers
- Allow customers to self-serve on-the-go

## \*\*IBT Industrial builds its ideal digital solution by listening to

customers\*\*

For a business new to digital, IBT Industrial began digitizing its manual
internal processes including those related to freight, pricing, taxes and order
fulfillments to be ready to support its organization-wide digital
transformation.

Once the team was ready, IBT Industrial kickstarted the platform selection
process with eight companies. While there were a few solutions that caught the
eye of IBT Industrial, Optimizely was ultimately chosen for its specific
manufacturing and distribution focus within its B2B Commerce solution.

Optimizely’s out-of-the-box solutions and integration capabilities with ERP
systems were appreciated by the IBT Industrial team, as they felt that the
solution understood their needs as distributors that deal with ERP systems
daily.

IBT Industrial also identified Xngage as its Optimizely partner. The IBT
Industrial team shared that Xngage truly listened to them, are knowledgeable
about Optimizely’s solutions and how to best leverage the wide-ranging
capabilities to help the business meet its goals.

We’ve built a site for the needs of our customers. When I look at our
competitors, I can see they’ve been on this journey a lot longer than we have
but we have plans in mind to better serve our customers. We might not be there
yet, but we’re coming up quick.

Carin Sampson

VP of Human Resources & Marketing, IBT Industrial

Carin Sampson, VP of Human Resources and Marketing, viewed Xngage as a strategic
partner to the IBT Industrial business. She shared that the Xngage team was not
just executing on the business’ vision, they were also providing IBT Industrial
with insights and useful suggestions to facilitate the digital transformation
fit for mid-market B2B customers.

Before they got to work, the IBT Industrial team spent a good amount of time
collecting customer feedback and listening to customer expectations. This served
as a digital transformation compass for IBT Industrial to deliver a digital
experience that would be on par with its renowned in-person experience.

By leveraging Optimizely’s Product Configuration capabilities geared towards B2B
needs, IBT Industrial’s new digital solution helps internal teams add and manage
its extensive catalog in a simplified manner.

IBT Industrial also successfully showcased its product information richness with
logical and robust content and visuals that provide their B2B customers with a
consumer-like shopping experience using the robust Catalog Management.

In addition, Optimizely’s intuitive product search helps both employees and
customers locate products swiftly. The AI-powered Search & Navigation predicts
customers’ keyword search and displays relevant results for a frictionless
search and shopping experience.

Optimizely’s List Management capabilities also enabled IBT Industrial to
facilitate quick orders for regular customers. Customers can do so via their
order history or uploading previous orders onto the platform.

IBT Industrial accounted for questions customers may have about these new
digital processes and prepared useful tutorial videos and FAQs that address
queries clearly by leveraging the Content Management feature to create its
Knowledge Center. The Knowledge Center also houses practical content including
website features, a user guide, site improvements and updates as well as a
feedback page.

Content management is further leveraged to deliver exceptional content
experiences that help customers understand how IBT Industrial can help them go
further in their industry. From industry news to IBT news, product comparison to
how-to guides, content is available for customers across the board.

A large part of why customers choose IBT Industrial is its ability to source
customized solutions and even reverse engineer parts that are no longer on the
market.

Despite moving to a more systemic solution to product management, IBT Industrial
stays true to helping customers solve even the most customized problems by
providing a ‘Request Product’ form that allows customers to detail their
specific needs.

Optimizely’s Analytics has helped IBT Industrial understand customers better
through their purchases, browsing history and personas.

With a digital solution that was intuitive for tech-savvy customers while taking
into consideration new digital customers, IBT Industrial and Xngage built an
industry-leading platform that went beyond customer expectations.

## **IBT Industrial’s digital transformation pays off**

The ease of searching for products on IBT Industrial’s new ecommerce platform
has increased online customers’ new products purchased by 20%. This behavior is
expected to persist, as customers can browse IBT Industrial’s catalog on the go
as well as continuously engage digitally with the site.

IBT Industrial’s intuitive website helps customers locate products swiftly, keep
up with industry news, request specific products, and more B2B-targeted
functionalities, IBT Industrial also experienced an increase in site traffic, a
testament to the success of its digital transformation.

In the first two weeks of the website’s launch, the number of site visitors from
email campaigns in the two weeks post-launch was equivalent to the total number
of visitors from email campaigns in the previous year. This increase can be
attributed to the rich product content that linked visitors seamlessly from
emails to the website with clear visuals and key product information, resulting
in an impressive 6,533% increase in site visitors from email campaigns.

IBT Industrial’s new digital solution has also helped the team understand
customers better by analyzing customer behavior and preferences. This has helped
shape its development and marketing roadmaps, including content and search
strategies.

With many of its manual processes including content, order and product
management streamlined, IBT Industrial’s customers can self-serve, anytime,
anywhere. The IBT Industrial team is also benefitting from this time-saving and
cost-efficient approach, empowering them to focus on improving existing
processes and experiences including strategic planning or account management.

## \*\*IBT Industrial paves its way for a continuously customer-centric digital

solution\*\*

This is just the start of IBT Industrial’s digital transformation journey, and
it has set its sights on bigger goals including leveraging personalization to
deliver targeted marketing.

IBT Industrial also plans to constantly improve its digital experience to make
it more helpful and supportive to reach out to new business customers while
maintaining the personalized relationship aspect for which the business is well-
known.

The team also plans to extend personalization into other aspects including
technical-focused content delivery and quotations in the coming year.

While IBT Industrial is off to a great start, the team believes they still have
much more untapped potential in serving their B2B customers digitally compared
to major industry players. They believe that by leveraging Optimizely for their
upcoming plans, they will soon join the ranks of market leaders.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

https://www.shopibt.com/

## In collaboration with:

XNGAGE

XNGAGE is a Digital Services firm focused on delivering Commerce Success in B2B
for leading manufacturers, distributors, and wholesalers.
