# The International Fresh Produce Association tastes success with Optimizely's

CMS

## At a glance

- 41% increase in organic search traffic in the first six months
- 33% increase in user engagement in the first six months
- 19% increase in website interactions (clicks, form submissions and video plays)

## **Uniting the fresh produce and floral industry**

As the largest and most diverse international association serving the entire
fresh produce and floral supply chain with more than 3,000 members, the
International Fresh Produce Association (IFPA) was formed by the coming together
of Produce Marketing Association and United Fresh to bolster the presence and
unite the industry.

Focusing on businesses within the fresh produce and floral industry, IFPA exists
to grow the prosperity of businesses through advocacy, networking and guidance.
Its aim is simple – to create a vibrant future for all.

IFPA works on behalf of and with the produce and floral industries through a
wide range of efforts including local and global events, professional
development, research, advocacy and policy recommendations, networking
opportunities and more.

When the COVID-19 pandemic hit, the team went fully remote. Its website became a
crucial point of contact for people to discover IFPA and connect with the
company. Its website also became a focal point for the team, as IFPA underwent
organizational changes and the team had to figure out the best way to present
its new identity to stakeholders.

## **Perplexing systems and functions limiting growth**

The foundation it had to build on was a CMS that did not meet the needs of
IFPA’s content-focused strategy. Its previous CMS had an inefficient and
complicated interface that limited authoring capabilities, drastically slowing
down its content pipeline. Simple changes such as updating images on the
homepage were unnecessarily complicated.

It did not help that the previous solution provider’s support had an
unpredictable response time.

The search function was also chargeable for even the most minor searches
performed on the site, making it costly for IFPA to maintain the search function
for a better user experience.

As IFPA wanted to stay ahead of the technology curve, it also had plans to port
over to a cloud-based solution, something it could not accomplish with its
existing CMS provider as it came at an exorbitant cost.

The team knew the shortcomings of a less than desirable website for both
internal and external stakeholders, so the main objective of the website revamp
was how it can make things better.

A new website that encompasses the full extent of IFPA’s efforts was crucial to
communicate to industry stakeholders and establish its identity as a critical
industry authority as well as provide visitors with a seamless user experience.

The task force assigned to the website overhaul was a lean team of five people
and they had less than half a year to launch their new web presence as IFPA by
January 1, 2022.

The IFPA team assigned to this task had to ensure the following goals were
achieved by January 1, 2022:

- An up-and-running, visually appealing website that represented IFPA with essential pages
- A CMS that will allow IFPA to create content with ease
- At least six pieces of content that cover any of the IFPA’s 13 resource topics, spanning from advocacy to technology, live
- Published content for global events that IFPA hosts annually
- Allow IFPA members to log in and access members-only content

The IFPA team knew they could not pull this off alone. They started looking out
for a new CMS and experts that would help make their highly time-sensitive goals
a reality.

## **Cultivating its identity as an industry leader – from the ground up**

Working closely with its members from a variety of groups including food safety,
consumer trends, floral, food service and sustainable supply chain management,
IFPA collected holistic feedback to identify the best solution for its
stakeholders.

IFPA found Perficient, an Optimizely partner, and after a few helpful
conversations with demos and examples, it landed on Optimizely being the best
fit for IFPA’s needs – a flexible, intuitive, cost-effective, and frequently
updated solution hosted on the cloud.

Once the preliminary details were ironed out, Perficient and IFPA hit the ground
running. Perficient took on the project management and worked very closely with
IFPA to bring to life the ideal website that fits IFPA’s new identity through
frequent and open communication.

The vision for IFPA’s website is to become a source of authoritative information
for industry stakeholders. It wanted visitors to regard the website as a place
to get the latest updates about the industry and improve site engagement through
relevant content.

With access to a rich pool of resources ranging from consumer to sales data for
its industry, it was important for IFPA to give back to its community, so
everyone stays up to date. It dedicated a section to ‘Resources,’ which included
articles, industry updates, podcasts, press releases, virtual town halls and
webinars. The resources were presented in a structured manner with logical
search and filter options by leveraging Optimizely’s Search & Navigation. The
best part? Search & Navigation is part of Optimizely’s solution and does not
incur additional costs when site visitors use the search function.

A section was also designated for ‘Events’ to keep industry stakeholders in the
loop of the latest exhibitions, conferences and virtual events. This helps
relevant businesses prepare for upcoming events and gain exposure.

In addition, Optimizely’s intuitive and user-friendly CMS helped the IFPA team
structure and plan its content. With abilities to integrate with Salesforce and
personalize based on user profiles, IFPA can optimize content delivery and user
experiences for site visitors with Recommendations.

Throughout the project, Perficient proved to be a knowledgeable Optimizely
partner by leveraging Optimizely’s solution to meet IFPA’s needs. Optimizely's
support team’s responsiveness and helpfulness also helped IFPA understand
Optimizely’s products better.

What I love about [Optimizely’s] CMS in general is that it’s super easy to use.

Jim Rusinski

Digital Solutions Engineer, International Fresh Produce Association

## **Harvesting IFPA’s fruits of labor**

IFPA succeeded in meeting its initial goals within the stipulated timeline with
an impressive site launched on January 1, 2022.

Within the first six months of IFPA’s website go-live, it has had a 41% increase
in organic search traffic, a 33% increase in user engagement and an average
engagement time of three minutes, a testament to its optimized content delivery
and strategy with Optimizely’s CMS.

The website’s improved search with Search & Navigation has also increased
website interactions including clicks, form submissions and video plays by 19%.

To maintain the exclusivity of being an IFPA member while driving membership, it
also included gated premium content within its resource pool. Interested parties
can access these members-only content and other benefits by signing up as an
IFPA member through the intuitive user journey.

With in-depth analytics available to IFPA, it identified that 36% of its website
users were on mobile. This provides an indicator for IFPA when optimizing its
future content strategy.

While IFPA is just getting started with Personalization, it has also seen an
improved understanding of its audiences by leveraging Optimizely’s solution,
helping it improve relevant content delivery.

The IFPA team also experienced improvements in quality of life with Optimizely’s
responsive and helpful support team. Tickets raised by IFPA were resolved
promptly compared to its previous solution provider, something of which the team
is highly appreciative.

In addition, Optimizely’s simple and intuitive CMS improved the IFPA team’s
efficiency with improved content rollout as well as refined its content strategy
for the future. With this newfound flow as its building blocks, IFPA is laying
the foundation for its content strategy, an integral part of how IFPA defines
success moving forward.

## **Growing IFPA’s online presence with Optimizely**

Some of IFPA’s stretch goals are to leverage its Salesforce integration more to
unify customer data for a holistic view of its user journeys. This will help
IFPA facilitate down-the-funnel user journeys and improve conversions. The IFPA
team also hopes to identify leads swiftly through the integration, saving the
team’s time while making better decisions through improved insights.

In addition, IFPA will continue leveraging Recommendations to optimize its user
experiences with real-time, AI-powered insights guiding its content strategy and
business decisions.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Products used

- Recommendations
- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

https://www.freshproduce.com/

## In collaboration with:

Perficient, Inc.

Perficient blends the strategic imagination of an agency with the deep technical
acumen of Perficient’s established consultancy background to deliver exceptional
customer experiences for the world’s biggest...
