# KappAhl converts physical customers to online shoppers

One of Scandinavia's leading fashion retailers build millions of digital
consumer connections on Optimizely

## KappAhl as a brand

KappAhl was founded in 1953, in Göteborg, Sweden, and is one of the leading
fashion chains in the Nordic region. They operate 380 stores across five
countries and have a staff of approximately 4,000 employees in ten countries.
Their mission is to have value-for-money fashion to women in the prime of their
life, and also their family and all products are designed by their own designers
and pattern constructors.

KappAhl are a keen promotor of sustainability. Today, 58% of their products are
labeled as sustainable, and their goal is for 100% to be made of more
sustainable materials by 2025.

All products are designed in-house and production at suppliers is carefully
monitored by KappAhl colleagues in in Turkey, India, China and Bangladesh to
name a few.

## Online shopping popularity

Optimizely sat down with Maria Walmu, Online Manager at KappAhl to understand
more about the retail giant’s digital commerce ecosystem.

Maria: ''I have worked within KappAhl since 2011. Actually, it was then that we
started e-commerce for the Swedish market''.

Even though KappAhl have a large physical estate, they are seeing an
accelerating shift towards online transactions powered by Optimizely. Online
activity now represent 7% of turnover. ''It's increasing in share every year'',
Maria mentions, marking a shift in consumer buying behavior for the retailer.

Maria goes on to say KappAhl's target group is, ''women in the prime of life we
say, and their family. And since we have a very broad assortment, you can find
fashion for all occasions at KappAhl''.

Quote Block (New): New Block

Having such a broad appeal and consumer offering, COVID-19 presented a
monumental challenge to KappAhl. Maria shares that since the outbreak of the
COVID-19 pandemic, a new segment of customers have found their way into the
digital store.

''Not all customers who shop in our physical stores also shop in our digital
stores, but the past weeks we have seen an increase in customers try out the
online channel'', says Maria.

Having both physical and online channels in sync is the progressive strategy
KappAhl are employing. ''We do think that the online share will take a leap and
grow a lot...but of course, we are hoping that the physical stores recover more
soon, so that we can have a more stable situation. But we do believe that the
online share will be a lot higher even after the Corona situation''.

By analyzing available data, KappAhl are outsmarting the industry by
understanding how to leverage different customer channels.

## ''Everyone knows that you need to have an online shop''

Having a strong customer-centric appetite, KappAhl pay particular attention to
each customer-journey in order to understand their needs in better detail. In
doing so, Maria comments, ''we're also seeing that the customer that is buying
in both channels is shopping more frequently, with a higher average basket
value. So it's very valuable for us to have a customer buying in both channels
and not only one''.

KappAhl utilise Optimizely Commerce to showcase their online offering. The
Optimizely Commerce delivers modern eCommerce platform capabilities including
Product Catalog Management, Order Management, Promotions and Customer
Management. This is back-up with industry leading Experience Management A/B
testing features.

Maria tells us, ''we have around 1-1.5 million visitors per week. And now,
during the Corona crisis, our conversion rates are much higher''.

## ''We launched home delivery in a very short period of time''

Maria talks of how KappAhl are marrying the two customers to complement one
another. They have introduced click-and-collect. ''That's been really successful
for us. Really connecting the digital to the physical. And here we have a
strategy that if you buy something online, you will have free shipping to all
stores. And that is an incentive for the customers to go to the stores.''

Home delivery was accelerated during COVID-19. Maria shares, ''home delivery is
very important, so that is something that we could do really fast. I would say
not all our competitors have home deliveries, so that's good that we managed to
offer it as soon within the situation''.

## Facilitating new ways of shopping: ''Personal shopping online, that's also

been growing a lot''

KappAhl are inventing new ways of engaging with consumers as they continue their
customer-centric journey. Maria explains, ''one thing that we have and that
we're also promoting a lot right now is, that we help our customers to make
their online purchases. If they're not familiar with shopping online, we can
even buy all the products for them, and they only get an SMS. They get an SMS
and then they will accept the payment, and the order is fulfilled in that way.
And we're promoting that at the moment and we see that a lot of customer,
really, would like this kind of help''. KappAhl have created, ''a pop-up online
that if you need some help, we can chat with you and we can even place the order
for you''.

These gateways are some of the steps being taken that ultimately help the
consumer in their buying-journey and increases the likelihood of future repeat
purchases.

Maria shares, ''the conversion rate and the average buy is increasing more than
the traffic. So we are converting customers that only bought physically before.
They are buying more online''.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Commerce Connect

#### Customer's website

http://www.kappahl.com/

## In collaboration with:

Knowit AB

Knowit provides knowledge in at the area of communication, commerce and
collaboration on the web, mobile and new media.
