# KLM scales its test-and-learn culture with Optimizely

The best way of knowing is doing. Although KLM Royal Dutch Airlines had always
been pioneering the forefront of digital developments and has always had a
culture of engaging customers in developing new products and services, KLM’s web
teams reached the limits of their experimentation capabilities in 2017. As the
need for experimentation by internal product teams and data-driven decision
making increased, KLM was looking for a reliable data-driven test partner … and
found one in Optimizely.

## Building minimal lovable products

Digital product teams at KLM are continuously working on improvements to the
user experience. In an industry that is renown for its competitiveness - many
different parties are trying to seduce the travel savvy customer - small tweaks
to the user experience can make a huge difference. With over 30 million people
booking KLM tickets on a yearly basis, building a product that ‘just works’ (a
Minimal Viable Product) is not enough, it is about building digital products
that are super easy to use and intuitive - Minimal Lovable Product.

This is no easy feat and requires a lot of user engagement, feedback and testing
to implement. KLM therefore implemented Optimizely to scale the number and
impact of experiments done by the different product teams. Now, a year-and-a-
half after implementation, 6 product teams use Optimizely. Overall, KLM doubled
the number of tests executed and on average the time to set up a test only takes
half the time it did before Optimizely’s implementation.

We are catching up with Grazia Aroboleo and Joost Olieroock within KLM’s
Customer Insights & Analytics team to talk about the implementation.

## Optimizing the customer experience

The introduction of Optimizely within KLM just coincided with a KLM-wide program
to roll out flight packages (incorporating baggage and ticket flexibility) in
the booking flow. When Grazia Arboleo, Optimization Specialist within the
Insights & Analytics team at KLM, was asked to AB-test a new design for the
flight selection step on the KLM website with these new packages, she did not
know that this would be an important turning point in the way design changes
would be rolled out.

The team focused on building an Minimal Lovable Product based on flexible
components. This would allow fast optimization and was the requirement for an
agile rollout. Grazia helped the team to track the impact of the new design
through experimentation. Despite high expectations, the experiment data showed
clearly that the new design needed further optimization.

Grazia and the team analyzed the results and developed new hypotheses.
Optimizely enabled them to run multiple experiments easily, iterate quickly and
make step-by-step improvements to the design. Within a few months, the team ran
more than 20 tests on this particular flow-always measuring step conversion and
booking conversion rates. Some of the experiments delivered clear winners,
others did not. As a result, conversion rates recovered and finally, the
experience was rolled out to all visitors.

Prior to using Optimizely, KLM used to implement redesigns gradually, starting
by serving the experience to a small geographic market. If the teams did not see
drastic changes in their analytics or sales figures for this market, they would
gradually expand the experience to other markets. This roll-out process could
help to prevent drastic drops in measurements, but more subtle changes were hard
to detect.

## Accelerating the Experimentation Mindset

This first successful, experiment received a lot of attention within KLM and
helped to drive the experimentation mindset further “It was crucial for us to be
able to measure the differences between the old and the new versions of the
booking flow and get reliable statistical data”, says Grazia.

The ease of setting up experiments in Optimizely has encouraged other product
teams at KLM to engage with experimentation. “Prior we had third parties
developing most of our experiments. Nowadays we have our own developers doing
this. When new developers start using Optimizely, they are often amazed about
the possibilities. It is also great that experimentation makes the impact of
their daily work much clearer. The analysts from Grazia’s team support the
product teams throughout the complete experimentation process (from plan to
analysis). “The team I support is now submitting more test requests than I can
analyze”, Grazia laughs and is glad that Optimizely’s Stats Engine, the
statistical backbone of the platform, makes her life as an analyst a lot easier.
She is proud that her product team adopted an experimentation mindset and is
testing self-sufficiently as part of their agile way of working.

Product owners now ask more and more to test every change to prove that it does
what it is supposed to do - and if not, we can optimize. These learnings are
crucial for delivering a convincing customer experience.

Joost Olieroock

Manager Customer Insights & Analytics, KLM

## Data draws a detailed picture of the customer

Besides experimentation, the teams are also gaining insights from other data
sources (e.g. analytics, surveys, heatmaps). Optimizely's integration with some
of their tools, helps them to get a better understanding of customer needs and
see if the variations in their experiments better fulfill these needs.

The integration with the Analytics tool allows KLM to automatically import
experiment data for further analysis within a wider business context. Also
heatmaps can be automatically tagged with the information about the A/B test
variation that a particular user has seen. This way the analysts can
differentiate between experiences during their analysis.

Joost brings up the project for KLM’s Corporate program to optimize the
experience of business travellers by providing them with a special booking flow
for corporate customers. “This a perfect example where we used insights from
user feedback, analytics and experimentation in conjunction.”

Before developing the experience, the team wanted to draw a picture of this
particular segment and understand how they like to engage with the site. To
decide if and how to build the experience, the team ran an experiment with
Optimizely to find out, if users were actually willing to disclose whether they
were travelling for leisure or business by adding an option to specify the
reason for travel. They also conducted a survey asking users to fill in a
questionnaire about their booking preferences. The results were complemented
with data from their analytics tool.

While the project has not yet been completed, the research has lead to the
hypothesis that users might be more willing to reveal their reason for travel if
they knew what the information would be used for and how it would benefit them.

This example shows how data from various sources of research helps to gain
insights on users’ needs and preferences and how experiments help optimizing the
experience of visitors.

## A new way of learning

The scale and speed of experimentation with Optimizely has changed the way
digital product teams at KLM are working. “Optimizely is really helping our
teams to test and learn faster, making it easier to adapt to our customer
needs”, says Grazia. “Testing is very important to measure the impact of changes
towards our goal”, she adds.

Joost predicts that experimentation will soon be the gold standard across all
teams at KLM, as it allows KLM to catch potential pitfalls before they are
rolled out to all users. “Product owners now ask more and more to test every
change to prove that it does what it is supposed to do - and if not, we can
optimize. These learnings are crucial for delivering a convincing customer
experience”.

#### Industry

Tech

#### Product used

- Web Experimentation

#### Customer's website

https://www.klm.com/
