# Laerdal Medical

Resuscitating its website with digital transformation

## At a glance

- 29 websites across 18 global markets
- 28% reduction in bounce rate
- Improved communication with customers

## Reviving Laerdal.com

Laerdal Medical is a world leading provider of training, educational and therapy
products for lifesaving and emergency medical care.

As one of the first companies in Norway to offer e-commerce, Laerdal Medical
sold its training and emergency medical products online via a homegrown website
built over 15 years ago. Customers were able to purchase Laerdal's products on
the website in ten markets, but the solution consisted of a very basic product
catalog and shopping cart. Laerdal lacked the resources to present its content
and products in a way that would help customers understand how the company and
its products could help them reach their goals. Implementing a more advanced
digital strategy, with the infrastructure to support it, would improve Laerdal's
ability to communicate with its customers, improve the overall customer
experience, and offer a mobile-friendly experience for visitors coming from
phone and tablet. With just two employees within the company able to edit and
enhance the current site, Laerdal also sought to deploy a more user-friendly
platform that could be utilized by all team members.

Finding a partner that you can trust is key, and we found that in Optimizely.
The new site is a big improvement for customer experience and the way Laerdal
communicates.

Pål Oftedal

Director Marketing Communications, Laerdal Medical

## A future-proofed solution

After careful evaluation of both Optimizely and Sitecore solutions, Laerdal
determined the Optimizely Digital Experience Platform would provide better value
for the price and was easier to use - one of the company's key requirements.
With more than 37,000 people in the Optimizely developer community, Laerdal also
felt confident it would have the resources necessary to reduce the risk of
undertaking such a large project. The Optimizely Digital Experience Platform
provided the flexibility and scalability to grow with the business, accomodating
both current and future needs including a robust e-commerce platform, ability to
easily expand into new markets, ease of use for editors, global capabilities and
support, and the ability to easily integrate with existing business systems.

The project was split into two phases and rolled out across 29 websites with
e-commerce in 18 international markets. The first phase addressed Laerdal's
content needs using Optimizely Content Cloud. Phase two will include the
addition of Optimizely Commerce.

The solution is hosted on Microsoft Azure and integrated with backend systems
including an ERP, CRM system, and Eloqua marketing automation. Laerdal is also
utilizing personalization on site. Eight different personas, including purchaser
(e.g. hospital procurement department), trainers (looking for products to solve
their needs in classes), and technical customers (needing to know how to set up
and fix products), have been created with very different customer journeys
enabled. The company hopes to further optimize the website with A/B testing and
personalization for first-time visitors vs. returning visitors in the near
future.

## Connecting customers with solutions

Implementing the Optimizely Digital Experience Platform has helped Laerdal
improve its communication with customers. The new, more modern site employs a
completely different look and feel, and puts connecting visitors with the right
solutions for their particular needs first and foremost. The website has been
well-received by customers, with Laerdal experiencing a 28% improvement in
bounce rate since launch.

Site editors have reported a much better experience using the new platform,
citing Optimizely offers more opportunities to create better content and
interact with customers.

"With so many different stakeholders in a global organization, it's important to
get everyone aligned internally before the project kicks off and to keep the
lines of communication open throughout," says Pål Oftedal, Director Marketing
Communications at Laerdal Medical. "Finding a partner that you can trust is key,
and we found that in Optimizely. The new site is a big improvement for customer
experience and the way Laerdal communicates."

#### Industry

Education

#### Products used

- Content Management System
- Commerce Connect

#### Customer's website

https://laerdal.com/
