# Laser Clinics creates vibrant customer experiences

Combining the power of Optimizely's Digital Experience Platform and Microsoft
365 to create a vibrant customer experience online and offline

## A digital face lift

Cosmetic treatment industry leader, Laser Clinics operate 150 clinics across
Australia and New Zealand. Their franchise network offer services ranging from
laser hair removal and skin treatments to cosmetic injections. Since their
launch in 2008, they have performed over 3 million treatments and have amassed
over 1 million treatment users.

**Treating the growing pains**

Appealing mainly to the younger demographic, Laser Clinics wanted to maintain
growth and increase customer satisfaction. They identified opportunities to
accelerate market share, not only in its Australia hub, but in New Zealand and
Europe. However, with the cosmetic treatment industry renowned for being
extremely competitive, Laser Clinics found that without a digital proposition
for its primary audience, these plans along with their market position were at
risk.

There were multiple hurdles the team needed t new digital platform to overcome.
With hundreds of clinics operating off their own independent operations,
obtaining a single customer view was a priority for the team.

With 4 main services, a major technical hurdle was easily managing online
bookings when there were multiple options a booker may opt for. This was
compounded with obstacles such as, specific treatment room and equipment
availability, predicted lengths of consultations, and availability of personnel.
This created numerous rules the cosmetic players had to overcome.

Other challenges Laser Clinics needed to overcome prior to selecting a digital
platform included:

- Buy-in from Laser Clinic board members for new platform investments
- Reducing duplicate records from each clinic
- Calculating average treatment times
- Placement of online revenue collection & distribution

Laser Clinics did not have the tools at hand to build a customer-centric digital
experience platform, nor to commercialise their services online. They consulted
with various stakeholders to understand not only their operational model better,
but also to understand the growing expectations of their young, digitally savvy
customers. The team required a holistic approach to a new platform.

## The ultimate customer journey on Optimizely + Microsoft Dynamics 365

After developing a high-level roadmap alongside their 100 franchise partners,
Laser Clinics opted for the combined power of Optimizely and Microsoft 365 to
establish themselves as leaders in the digital space. Evaluating multiple
platforms, Laser Clinics found that only this combination provided them the
powerful, flexible, robust capabilities needed to achieve against their growth
plans.

They leverage the Optimizely Commerce Cloud and Marketing Automation with
Microsoft Dynamics 365 as their CRM.

## Elastic scalability that grows with demand

As Laser Clinicsâ€™ customer base grows in reach, so too does their Optimizely
infrastructure. Hyper-scale cloud infrastructure enables the digital platform to
instantly accommodate increased traffic demand. They leverage discounts,
campaigns, and promotions with no risk of downtime.

From having all interactions in-clinic to now offering a digital service in less
than 6-months, Laser Clinics herald agility and flexibility as the key drivers.
over digital as well as through their physical estate.

## The digital and physical sync

Bookings through the Optimizely site account for 16% of all bookings. This means
subtle differences in-clinic such as the phone ringing less and more attentive
staff, resulting in a better physical environment for customers. Optimizely
Marketing Automation helps quickly create campaigns across web, mobile, and
email. This automated flow has so far connected 900,000 customers with further
information regards their treatment and other flash promotions. The Optimizely
automation syncs in effortlessly with Microsoft Dynamics 365 to give the one
customer view Laser Clinics were eager to gain. Marketing Automation has helped
boost conversion rates to 2.16%, higher than standard industry numbers. This is
especially useful for savvy customers who access the site 80% of the time
through their mobile.

## A holistic journey

The next steps include building on their European footprint in the UK. This will
be done through smart AI. An even deep look at their customer base will
ultimately gear them for further success as they mature digitally and enter the
capabilities of Optimizely personalization.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Products used

- Campaign
- Content Management System
- Commerce Connect
