# Losberger De Boer create a unified global platform and increase leads with

Optimizely's CMS

## At a glance

- Cohesive global presence with unified international platform - 11 separate country website variations on Optimizely CMS
- Increase in leads generated

# **The powerhouses of modular space solutions join hands**

Following the merger of structural and space solutions providers Losberger and
De Boer in 2017, Losberger De Boer built further on being a leader in modular
space solutions for events, commercial and public space, and military and
humanitarian application.

This new powerhouse within the modular space industry aims to be a sole source
for industry-leading product development, production, sales and rental by
combining the strengths in industry knowledge, market access and capacity.

Losberger De Boer ’s range of world-class temporary and permanent space
solutions are categorized into three main segments—events, commercial, and
emergency response and defense. Losberger De Boer's event solutions are present
at the biggest sporting, political and cultural events.Their commercial
solutions are built to be scalable and relocatable, providing flexibility for
multiple purposes, including warehousing and storage. Losberger De Boer’s
rapidly deployed products for emergency response and defense uses are trusted by
military and humanitarian organizations in emergencies across the world.

While Losberger De Boer’s products are of exceptional quality and variety, their
strength is understanding their customers' needs. They emphasize helping
customers achieve desired goals by matching customers to their offerings.

Although Losberger De Boer strives to be a one-stop solutions provider to
customers, their fractured digital architecture affected their online presence.
Their digital architecture included multiple websites, online marketing assets,
tools, activities and collaboration with global marketing agencies. Thus began
Losberger De Boer’s ambitious digital transformation to merge all company sites
into a global digital platform with 'One brand, one platform, one-on-one
experience' forming the foundation of their digital revamp.

# **Fractured digital architecture with archaic sites and systems**

With nearly 10 different websites that run on different servers and other online
assets including 50 social accounts, several Google Ads (and Bing) accounts,
Google Analytics, Tag Manager and Search Console accounts, Losberger De Boer
online landscape was scattered and existed in silos. Multiple assets meant
multiple stakeholders and data silo’s to get on the same page as well. Or having
a structural Webdata Reporting and Monitoring base for performance marketing.

In addition, their CMS, CRM and databases were not well-integrated, they lacked
efficient reporting and content management tools, and content was not always
tailored to customers.

The fractured architecture led to outdated websites, unstructured lead
generation tracking and failure to capture valuable website data. There were
plenty of missed opportunities for interaction and lead nurturing with
stakeholders as well as not maximizing the potential of Losberger De Boer’s data
and digital assets. Losberger De Boer understood that their digital
transformation not only had to address and rectify these issues, but it also had
to have the ability to grow and expand along with the company.

# **Losberger De Boer’s world-class digital transformation**

Embarking on this journey was an important next step for Losberger De Boer, but
they knew selecting the right solution and implementation partner was integral
to the success of their digital vision of 'One brand, one platform, one-on-one
experience'.

Once Losberger De Boer and iO were connected, iO wasted no time in laying out
the starting blocks for Losberger De Boer’s new digital solution. iO’s response
to Losberger De Boer’s RFP detailed their desire to support Losberger De Boer’s
mission and vision for the newly merged company through a deep understanding of
Losberger De Boer. An experienced Optimizely partner, iO also highlighted the
importance of engaging all stakeholders in Losberger De Boer’s digital
transformation in executing a compelling solution that will reinforce Losberger
De Boer’s best-in-class offerings to customers and talents. As digital solutions
can evolve with a company, iO understood that Losberger De Boer’s digital
transformation will not be a one-off project, rather it will be a long-term
collaborative partnership. A new international platform was the starting point
of digital transition and further online marketing growth.

iO proposed to Losberger De Boer a few platforms that may suit Losberger De
Boer’s needs and, Optimizely was chosen based on multiple factors including
scalability, future growth and iO’s advice.

To reflect their global presence, Losberger De Boer’s new website had to be
multilingual and multimarket while maintaining a unified appearance in-line with
their brand image. It also had to be flexible in integrating with multiple
online marketing technology software and potential future tool additions to keep
their digital solution ahead of competitors. Content also had to be relevant to
their customers to ensure that their website meets users' expectations, but also
contributes to a higher customer experience.

As part of the foundation of Losberger De Boer’s digital solution, iO
implemented Optimizely’s CMS that has real-time and multi-site statistics on a
live dashboard and provides an abundance of possibilities for developers to
tackle problems in creative ways. Equipped with their knowledge of Optimizely,
this allowed iO to swiftly respond to Losberger De Boer’s requests with several
options in reaching their objectives.

Losberger De Boer’s website leveraged Optimizely Forms to create web forms for
contact forms to the different international Sales teams. Optimizely’s content
editor eases the process of creating tailored forms and adding them to pages
while providing capabilities to optimize individual forms.

Since embarking on Losberger De Boer's digital transformation together, iO has
helped Losberger De Boer stay the course with timelines and budget. During the
COVID-19 pandemic, they continued making progress thanks to their strong
partnership, iO’s Optimizely knowledge and experience, and active communication.
iO was, and still is, with Losberger De Boer every step of the way from
providing strategy and advice to relentless development of the ideal digital
solution.

Together, with iO and Optimizely, we established a content platform that takes a
leading position worldwide within our core business and that is now ready for
the digital future, new marketing activities, better measurement and B2B lead
generation. This is on a global scale, adapting to all cultural differences,
with always creating the best online customer experience for our clients in
mind.

Robbie Schouten

Online Marketing Manager, Losberger De Boer

# **An industry-leading approach**

Together with iO, Losberger De Boer merged and migrated their previous digital
landscape onto an Optimizely-built international website with multimarket and
multilanguage capabilities while maintaining a centralized, worldwide
appearance.

The integrated website now supports nearly 10 languages in 11 different regions
and on global scale. Site navigation with all the range of different products
and markets, and content are structured for improved user experience. The user-
friendly CMS has also streamlined workflows for internal teams and improved
content management work through personalized content creation.

Built on .NET and Microsoft Azure, Losberger De Boer’s new website is secure,
fast and scalable, handling spikes in website traffic easily. Existing on the
cloud also improves the speed of implementation for other Optimizely tools,
allowing Losberger De Boer to customize based on their needs. Losberger De
Boer’s previously scattered digital assets are now seamlessly integrated with
the new website.

The exceptional digital experience of Losberger De Boer’s new website boasts
market agility, data and insights capabilities, easy integration with an array
of software as well as exceptional, personalized digital experiences that
continue to uplift Losberger De Boer’s business digitally. As a result, sales
and marketing teams within Losberger De Boer can swiftly find solutions for
various situations, contributing to their growth.

A unified website has also benefited Losberger De Boer’s marketing efforts. With
a structured digital architecture, the new platform can support proper lead
tracking, increased lead conversion for the sales team, and improved website and
user insights. With measurable marketing efforts, Losberger De Boer’s local
teams have visibility on their marketing spend while monitoring the
effectiveness of individual marketing investments.

# **Futureproofing Losberger De Boer’s digital solution**

To achieve their ‘One brand, one platform, one-on-one experience’ vision by
2025, Losberger De Boer’s relentless pursuit for a futureproof solution means
there is still more to be done.

Personalization is Losberger De Boer’s next foray in their digital
transformation journey. As the final part of their digital vision, delivering a
seamless and personalized user journey is critical in going beyond customer
expectations.

Losberger De Boer also plans to work with internal teams to understand how to
continue improving their digital solution to better serve staff in their work
for enhanced collaboration and efficiency.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

https://www.losbergerdeboer.com/uk/

## In collaboration with:

iO

As a digital agency, iO is shaping tomorrow's businesses in the areas of
marketing, strategy, communication and technology.
