# LOSSAN Rail Corridor Agency excel forward

Amtrak Pacific Surfliner increases referral traffic nearly 50% YoY with award-
winning website.

## Upgrading to the Cloud Fast Track

The Los Angeles–San Diego–San Luis Obispo (LOSSAN) Rail Corridor Agency assumed
operational management for the Amtrak Pacific Surfliner service in 2015.

The Pacific Surfliner travels across 351-miles of coastal rail route through San
Diego, Orange, Los Angeles, Ventura, Santa Barbara, and San Luis Obispo
counties, serving 27 stations.

**It is the busiest state-supported intercity passenger rail route in the United
States with 26 daily trains and annual ridership of nearly 3 million.**

_“The Pacific Surfliner is a critical vehicle for connecting diverse and unique
communities to iconic attractions and popular destinations across Southern
California,”_ said Emilia Doerr, Marketing and Communications Manager at the
LOSSAN Agency _. “When we assumed management of the service, we knew we needed
to make our website reflect that. We needed an experience-driven site that would
help us compete with the prevalent car culture in California and ultimately
inspire more people to travel by train.”_

The site was orginally built on the legacy Ektron CMS. Although practical, it
did not deliver the customer-centric experience LOSSAN were keen to implement.
They were keen to capture the elastic-scale that could handle a peak in online
visitors with no downtime. With an agile team, it also meant there was no heavy
reliance on an IT team, and instead LOSSAN could focus on exceeding passenger
needs and customer service.

Migrating away from Ektron also meant personalization was made achieveable.
Visitor Groups to reach different audience segments was possible with this
feature being out-the-box with, Optimizely.

After a competitive procurement process, Nansen was selected as the LOSSAN
Agency’s implementation partner, and as an Optimizely Gold Partner the Nansen
team is highly specialized in Optimizely solutions.

Quote Block (New): New Block

The new Pacific Surfliner website was also honored with the 2019 ‘Most
Innovative Digital Solution’ Web Award at Ascend, Optimizely’s annual user
conference.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

http://pacificsurfliner.com/

## In collaboration with:

Nansen Inc

Driven to explore, we design with purpose and a thousand different ways to get
there.
