# Macpek sees 86% increase in online revenue

Leading heavy-duty vehicle parts and car wheels distributor, Macpek drives
dedicated digital engagement with B2B Commerce Cloud

## Macpek parts are made to be on the road with you

For over 40 years Macpek has been on the leading edge of the heavy-duty vehicle
parts and car wheels industry. Macpek was founded with a single purpose: to get
customers on the road as quickly and for as long as possible. Today, with over
70,000 product SKU’s, Macpek is delivering a client experience that is
_Phenomenal from Part to Part_.

With over 400,000 feet of warehousing space and 15 locations to be close to
their customers, Macpek promises fast delivery and high quality parts. Macpek’s
commitment to an omnichannel strategy means the company is delivering a powerful
client experience not only from part to part, but also from channel to channel –
online and offline.

## Combating a shortage of talent

When you step back and assess the reality of the heavy-duty parts industry
there’s an undeniable challenge: talent is scarce because people are not
choosing to enter the industry. The heavy-duty vehicle parts industry is
incredibly specialized and complex and unfortunately, there are not many people
choosing to pursue this industry for their career.

For Macpek, they need to ensure that the existing employees they do have are as
efficient as possible. To build an efficient team requires robust tools and
technology. Macpek is always searching for ways to augment its teams’ processes
and provide resources that allow a small number of people to accomplish a lot of
work.

Additionally, for those who are entering the heavy-duty vehicle parts industry,
they are driving the organization toward new ways of doing business. The team at
Macpek knows that younger generations expect seamless digital experiences. They
expect to be able to utilize a website to conduct research, make the product
purchases they need and carry on with their day.

## Committed to growing alongside its digitally-savvy customers

In the aftermarket parts game, competition is tight. To separate your business
from the fray, you need to be willing to think differently about how to best
serve your customers. For Macpek, who has always been committed to delivering
the highest quality customer service, that meant transforming alongside their
increasingly digital-hungry customers.

So what did transformation look like for Macpek? The company envisioned an
experience where customers could self-serve with 24/7 access to real-time
inventory checkers, centralized product information, order history and invoices.

Prior to leveraging Optimizely's B2B Commerce Cloud, Macpek was using an
eCommerce solution that was not meeting their needs. With no SEO built-in,
Macpek was finding it challenging to get their products found when people were
doing research online. The experience did not meet the expectations of Macpek’s
customers and reflected poorly on the first-rate customer service they were
striving to provide.

## A new, more powerful B2B solution

The Macpek team knew that the issue they had was not with their ERP. Their ERP
was fine for managing the back-office processes. What they needed was a tool to
create an excellent experience on the user side. As a result, when searching for
a new eCommerce platform, one of the most important requirements was that the
solution would easily integrate with Macpek’s This would enable crucial
information like inventory and pricing to be shared across systems and not
duplicated.

In addition to integration to its ERP, Macpek was looking for a solution that
would provide a real-time inventory checker to its customers, could handle more
than 63,000 price matrix combinations and could manage product information for
more than 100,000 products. Further importance was placed on enhanced search and
responsive design.

Macpek was working with Absolunet, a North American eCommerce Agency during its
hunt for the right fit. Absolunet suggested that Optimizely's B2B Commerce Cloud
had the capabilities and features needed to handle the complex challenges Macpek
was facing.

## Improving the bottom line

Since implementing Optimizely's B2B Commerce Cloud, Macpek has seen an 86%
increase in online revenue. Today, Macpek is opening three to four new accounts
per day and sees an average of 8,000 monthly website transactions.

But the results go beyond new business. The platform has also enabled the team
to be more efficient than ever before. Macpek is utilizing the platform as a
training tool for new team members. Utilizing the platform as an onboarding tool
has reduced the training period for team members from one year to just three
months, a 9 month reduction in training time. Now, Macpek’s team can provide
more valuable customer service while augmenting processes that had previously
been conducted by people.

All in all, Optimizely's B2B Commerce Cloud solution has enabled Macpek’s
customers to self-serve while driving internal efficiencies and generating more
revenue. Macpek is continuously innovating and constantly looking for ways to
make the customer experience even more phenomenal from part to part.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

http://www.macpek.com/
