# Material Handling Systems rolls out a new corporate website

MHS launched a multi-brand global corporate website and an online parts catalog
for US customers using Optimizely’s Digital Experience Platform

## Remaining competitive in a changing market

MHS Global (MHS) is a full-service provider of innovative material handling
systems that solve the challenges of distribution and fulfilment operations. MHS
has a global installed base of over $5 billion for small to large distribution
and fulfilment projects in a variety of industries, including e-commerce,
parcel, third party logistics and outside integrators.

MHS has grown organically and through acquisition bringing together multiple
brands that have strong reputations in different aspects of the material
handling systems industry. This resulted in several different web sites and
different platforms. MHS did not have an online presence for aftermarket parts
support anywhere globally, instead supporting their customers via phone and
email and non-digital channels.

To remain competitive in the market, MHS set a strategy to create a new web
presence that will support multiple brands in multiple countries along with an
aftermarket parts channel to better service existing and future clients. MHS
chose Optimizely because the platform supports multiple brands, multiple
languages and has strong content management, search and ecommerce capabilities
in one platform.

As MHS grew through acquisitions it was important that our web presence
reflected our new, full service capabilities. We needed a website that
communicated who MHS is now. It was a large project with a strict deadline to go
live before our first ever tradeshow. Our new website is a great reflection of
MHS now and looking toward the future. The design is modern and clean and the
navigation is easy to use. We have received many compliments on our site

Lauren Pedley

Sr. Marketing Analyst , MHS

## Developing a digital approach

When it came to objectives, MHS have a clear approach in order to achieve a
strong digital presence.

This meant developing a global web presence that told the combined story of MHS
but allowed different brands to shine. By developing a global digital
aftermarket parts channel to better service existing and future clients, they
could support parts ordering that meets the needs of B2B customer’s,
organizational goals, and individual requirements.

With a clear approach, MHS desired a unified platform that supported multiple
brands and languages along with content management and commerce.

MHS, along with its partner Rightpoint, determined a phased approach to
launching a new online experience. The first phase was to rollout a new
corporate website. In choosing a platform, the team also considered the ultimate
goal of also developing an after-market parts channel

The new MHS website was launched on the Optimizely Content Cloud. Through
further competitor research and strategic analysis, the team created a roadmap
in July 2019 to deliver an MVP experience for the parts catalog, built upon the
existing corporate website using Optimizely Commerce Manager. In June 2020, MHS
launched the first phase of the online parts catalog. Future phases to build out
additional ecommerce features are being evaluated and refined.

MHS leveraged Optimizely's Digital Experience Platform as a platform-as-a-
service (PAAS) model to take advantage of the Microsoft Azure Cloud to reduce
complexity and be able to scale cost effectively.

As the industry and MHS continue to evolve, MHS plans to implement more advanced
B2B commerce features using AI and other tools to even better service customers
and continue to fuel the growth by a desire to be the best, not the biggest.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Customer's website

https://www.mhsglobal.com/

## In collaboration with:

Rightpoint

Premier Platinum Partner! Rightpoint has partnered with Optimizely (Episerver)
for almost a decade delivering award-winning digital experiences for some of the
largest brands in the world.
