# Mayer takes 90 years of expertise onto B2B Commerce Cloud

Visionary electrical distributor, Mayer revolutionizes their digital commerce
strategy with B2B Commerce Cloud.

## Top ten electrical distributor and one of the largest wholesale distributors

in the US

Mayer was founded in 1930 by Roslyn and Ben Weil as The Electric Supply Company
in Birmingham, Alabama. To survive the economic effects of the great depression,
Mr. Weil sold the business to Max Mayer, who renamed the company Mayer Electric
Supply.

Mr. Weil, who continued to manage the business and thanks to Mr. Mayer, was able
to re-purchase the company in 1934 keeping the Mayer name. In 1979, Patsy and
Charles Collat, Mr. Weil’s daughter and son-in-law, purchased the company and
through their hard work, leadership and vision, the company grew to a leader in
the electrical distribution industry.

Today, Mayer is one of the nation’s largest wholesale distributors of electrical
products and equipment serving contractors, industrials, OEMs, integrators,
institutions, government entities, utility providers, commercial businesses and
residential customers. With over 65 locations across 12 states, Mayer is defined
by its connected team, unrivaled service and innovative solutions.

We wanted a platform that did not hold us back and was ready to innovate along
with us. We have not hit any limitations with the Optimizely platform.
Everything we want to do is within reach. B2B Commerce Cloud has accommodated
numerous customizations and integrations

Kevin Gustin

Director of Marketing, Mayer

## An industry leader in an increasingly digital age

Mayer is a regional powerhouse whose leaders are influential in the electrical
industry. In fact, Mayer’s president, Wes Smith is also Chairman of NAED
(National Association of Electrical Distributors). As a leading voice in the
industry, Smith shares his visionary perspective on the digitalization of the
electrical industry. Mayer is part of leading organizations like IMARK Group and
utilizes the electrical industry’s leader for digital product content, IDEA.
Mayer prides itself on giving back to the industry and acknowledging the
challenges that electrical distributors face in today’s digital-first world.

As a leader and innovator in the industry, Mayer was an early adopter of
ecommerce. Mayer had outgrown their original ecommerce platform and was ready to
migrate away from it.

While Mayer prides itself on being a visionary leader in the industry, the
previous site no longer evoked that sentiment. Mayer required a site that
differentiated them from the competition and provided a user experience that was
consistent with what customers have grown to expect from Mayer.

Mayer has long term, generational relationships with their customers. When their
customers interact with Mayer, they can expect unrivaled service. However, over
time, the online experience was becoming more disconnected from the offline
experience. They wanted to represent themselves online, the same way their
associates do in-person.

Other pitfalls of the previous platform included a less than one percent
customer adoption rate, an outdated user interface, lack of enriched product
information and little to no ability to personalize the experience.

Mayer set out to modernize the brand experience, improve the backend integration
and scale their product catalog to include partner brands and suppliers’
products. They wanted to transform from a distributor with an online presence,
to a distributor with an evolutionary, best-in-class ecommerce presence.

## Finding a best-in-class B2B ecommerce platform

Upon establishing the need for a replatform, Mayer’s Executive Vice President
and Chief Digital Officer, Barry Carden formed a team of Mayer associates that
included ecommerce, product and marketing expertise to assess and select a
platform.

Mayer’s ecommerce team had a variety of criteria to make the selection:•
Customization • Backend integration to their ERP, JD Edwards• Integration to
their product information sourced from IDEA/DDS• Scalability• High quality
search • Implementation partner network

## Optimizely and implementation partner, Xngage up-level Mayer’s ecommerce

offering

Mayer selected Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud due to its hyper-focus on B2B and
native capabilities that covered major gaps that were needed to support their
strategic direction including capabilities for search, CMS, personalization,
customer segments, promotions and a mobile app.

Mayer went live on Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud in July 2020. Since then,
they’ve enjoyed much more control over the look and feel of the site, enhanced
search and more sophisticated integration that enables the flow of important
information into the site.

Under the guidance of Optimizely’s implementation partner, Xngage, Mayer was
able to successfully bridge integration between multiple systems including their
ERP and product feed. Mayer is harnessing multiple technologies to deliver a
seamless experience to their users.

There are thousands of details to manage in order to overhaul an electrical
distribution website. Xngage led a ground-up rebuild of the existing Mayer site
flawlessly. All the content and product information on the website was brand
new, refreshed and rebuilt.

## Mayer’s new site differentiates them from other electrical distributors

Mayer associates, suppliers and customers have provided unanimous positive
feedback about the upgraded site.

Associates can leverage the website to help improve the sales process. It was
never designed to replace the sales process, but rather supplement it. In
addition, Mayer’s marketing team can easily customize landing pages, product
catalogs and content for each supplier leveraging the built-in B2B Commerce
Cloud CMS.

Customers now enjoy more information at their fingertips than ever before. They
are enabled to easily self-serve and login to find information about their most
recent orders, invoices and other important data.

In addition, Mayer offers exponentially more product data on their site. Xngage
helped to grow Mayer’s product catalog to over 65,000 products and that number
continues to grow using Optimizely’s ability to integrate product data from
IDEA/DDS. Many of the products have anywhere from 20 to 30 pieces of attributed
content like spec sheets, drawings, brochures, 360 images , videos and other
information.

With more product information, a strong solutions-focused configurator tool and
customized content, more customers have adopted the new ecommerce website. Mayer
is now able to sell a higher volume of products and craft more end-to-end
solutions for their customer base.

The website is part of Mayer’s larger omnichannel strategy that aims to deliver
a consistent, best-in-class experience whether a customer calls a sales
associate, visits a branch or engages with Mayer online.

Mayer continues to push the envelope for what’s possible to achieve with B2B
Commerce Cloud and maintains a strong influence in the electrical distribution
industry as a whole.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

http://www.mayerelectric.com/

## In collaboration with:

XNGAGE

XNGAGE is a Digital Services firm focused on delivering Commerce Success in B2B
for leading manufacturers, distributors, and wholesalers.
