# Metropolitan Police Service get 25% more people to go online

London's Met Police open the first online police station

## A duty to all Londoners

The Metropolitan Police Service is the territorial Police service responsible
for law enforcement across Greater London. The service covers an area of 620
square miles and a population of over 7 million residents.

The Met Police wanted to transition its existing engagement platform from a
simple publishing site into an operational police station, providing localised
and specific content to the public. The new site was to become an interactive
engagement tool to capture, process and complete crime reporting and engagement
services. A game-changer for a UK police force.

## Direct engagement with the masses

The Met Police partnered with Optimizely partner CDS to create the new website.
CMS functionality was utilised, whilst developing additional components through
the open API. The core transactional aspect of the solution was a bespoke forms
engine, which was the backbone of the public engagement function. The solution
enables the public to interact with the MPS on various aspects such as crime
reporting and licence applications. There are many different types of crime and
each question directs people, through logical branching, down a specific route,
whether to act or await a response from the appropriate person in the MPS who is
alerted by the system. Along with the public engagement features the solution
delivers localised content related to Safer Neighbourhood Team (SNT) areas. This
provides a community level service whereby the public are informed about the
most prevalent crime trends and offered information about how to prevent and
avoid being a victim of those crime types, specific to each SNT area.

The Metropolitan Police Service website delivers a fundamental transition from a
publishing website to an operational police station. Website visitors are guided
from the homepage toward logical, easy to use routes for specific tasks to
enable them to: Report crime, view local statistics and crime prevention advice,
complete transactions (such as license applications, apply for National Safety
Awareness courses, feedback to the MPS) all end-to-end online and deliver a
fully accessible service that is: mobile and desktop compatible, is truly usable
from a web standards and disability/accessibility perspective, that is presented
and authored in the language of a member of the public rather than as a member
of the law enforcement community.

Given more choices and a newly developed leading-edge website the public is
moving from front desk and call centre to interacting with the Met online. The
Met Police has seen a growth of 25% more people using online instead of the
Met’s call centre. Each contact via the website, instead of call centre,
achieved for the Metropolitan police is equivalent, according to industry
figures, to an approximate cashable saving of £9 for every transaction.

#### Industry

Tech

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

https://www.met.police.uk/
