# Moco Food Services

Foodservice distributor creates B2C experiences for B2B

Multi-award winning Moco Food Services is a foodservice distributor supplying
major consumer brands products such as Nestle and Unilever to customers
including pubs, clubs, restaurants and cafes. They are the prominent name in the
B2B food distribution industry trading out of the East Coast of Australia.

Moco’s state-of-the-art distribution center houses some of the sharpest
warehousing and logistical efficiencies in Australia. The company has invested
heavily in its technology infrastructure to enhance operations across its
warehouse including voice picking, live inventories on hand and forklifts with
automated routing software.

## Distributing new advances

Moco wanted a system that would better accommodate users and encourage more to
use it, as many of its customers were ordering through its call center. With
significant advances in machine learning and artificial intelligence, the
company wanted to find a technology partner that would advise and assist in
those areas.

## Validation through customer research

Moco employed a holistic approach in setting out their vision that centered it
around an immersive visitor experience.

The distributor commissioned customer research and spent three months
interviewing their extensive customer network. Craig Purnell, Chief Operating
Officer at Moco pointed out "our customers wanted something online that makes it
easy to order, gives them inspiration and provides customized offerings.’’

Craig also noted, “Once we had this feedback it was an easy decision for us as
we knew this was the journey we wanted to go on, and we needed to keep our
customers happy!”

## Emulating B2C experiences

Moco’s research concluded that customers desired a journey that reflected their
every day, online shopping experiences as a consumer. Customers expect B2B
distributors to offer a B2C experience.

This alone made Moco’s existing platform obsolete for customer needs. The
business’ current ordering platform was one dimensional – not meeting increasing
customer expectations. Having been designed solely as an ordering platform and
not as a user interface for enjoyable user experience, it wasn’t appealing to
visitors.

“Being a progressive business, we wanted to change the current platform because
it was not where we wanted it to be as a business," says Craig Purnell, Chief
Operating Officer, Moco Food Services.

Moco had set out an ambitious yet comprehensive platform requirement. One which
would better accommodate current users’ needs and attract new users to visit. It
needed to be fast, with a powerful search functionality and space to showcase
thousands of products in an easily accessible manner.

- Speed to order - a fast platform at processing information
- A powerful search functionality
- Product information, detail and attributes easily accessible.

## Optimizely's personalization solution

To satisfy market demands and maintain exponential growth, Moco Food Services
today leverages a suite of Optimizely solutions.

"We like Episerver’s [now Optimizely] integrated approach, development
lifecycle, and comprehensive modules," says Craig on the value Optimizely
delivers for his organization.Benefiting from a single, unified digital
ecosystem, Moco smartly deploys Optimizely as a central module that integrates
with numerous platforms to ensure smooth 24/7 operations. From payment systems
to delivery tracking, the Optimizely Digital Experience Platform handles all of
Moco’s capability requirements.

Before the upgrade to Optimizely, the analog ordering process meant that
customers purchased the same items repeatedly. Their attention wasn’t drawn to
other items that would be of use to them. Unleashing machine learning through
Optimizely’s Personalization suite has enabled Moco to showcase its entire
pallet of products. It is not only Moco who benefits from a unified platform
experience. Their customers often remark that they "weren’t aware of Moco’s
extensive range." This higher visibility has led to an increased likelihood of
customers purchasing more items from Moco, valuing the company as a one-stop-
shop. Influencing an increase in purchases, this has grown Moco’s revenues while
driving efficiencies for the customer as they now receive one supplier invoice.

As Moco builds out their customer personas and uncovers rich customer data, the
personalization venture continues, ensuring super-accurate recommendations every
time.

"The personalization component is something that really aligns with our
strategic objectives," says Caroline Kelly, eCommerce Manager, Moco Food
Services.

## Pricing is paramount but no longer a game-changer

As Moco continues to set the precedence and disrupt the norm, industry
counterparts are catching wind of this. They, too, are deploying artificial
intelligence solutions signaling an industry shifting away from a price-
orientated, transactional basis.

The traditional battlefield for B2B distributors was overwhelmingly centered
around price. Large-scale hospitality customers commanded huge volumes that
equated to price discounts. Moco is now better positioned to efficiently
accommodate all customers - expertly crafting a rock-solid pricing strategy
across their entire product estate. This equals a browsing journey that
transitions the customer from search-to-order in just three clicks.

## Unpacking the benefits and delivering behavioral change

During the first five months of launch, 65% of orders were placed through the
new Optimizely platform. This marked an incredible take-up rate well ahead of
the business’ expectations and heralded a new digital era for the distributor’s
customer base. This shift in behavior, away from traditional ordering methods,
is on target to grow – expecting to deliver 85% in due course.

With smart automation following the ecommerce launch, Moco already enjoys a 10%
reduction in error rates. The Australian team avoids order information being
lost in translation or written in error - an unexpected benefit that brings
significant cost savings. It has also led to an increase in internal
efficiencies of 60%, with staff being redeployed to other positions to deal with
the shift in customer ordering journeys.

## Future plans and outlook

Today, Moco Platform users must be existing account holders with Moco to access
the platform, and Moco is looking to build a self-registration system so any
business can register online quickly. The wireframes are already being drawn up
to further explore Optimizely Personalization and the powerful customer insights
it can deliver. Throughout this discovery phase, Moco continues its successful
strategy of keeping the customer at the heart of their development.

Moco’s Optimizely solution has positioned them for strong growth for the short,
medium and long term. This is business-critical since the likes of supermarket
retailers vie for distributor territory. These new market players, with hi-tech
robotic warehouses, offer deliveries "direct-to-door," an approach which
encroaches on Moco’s space. Moco, however, are not concerned by this movement.
Moco believes that the Optimizely platform will help brace them as they focus on
growing their core market to deliver an immersive experience for all.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Customer's website

https://www.mocofoodservices.com.au/
