# Modular Lighting achieve business success and revitalize commerce offering

with Optimizely's CMS

### **Introduction**

Modular Lighting Instruments, a leading architectural lighting manufacturer,
embarked on a transformative journey with Optimizely to transition from
traditional marketing methods to a dynamic, customer-focused digital strategy.
The challenge was clear: their existing marketing efforts were not scalable, and
their online presence was outdated. With the help of Optimizely and partners
Delaware, Modular Lighting not only revamped their website but also redefined
their entire approach to engaging with customers.

### **Challenge: Transitioning from traditional to digital marketing**

In 2018, Modular Lighting made the bold decision to fully embrace digital
marketing, moving away from their reliance on printed catalogs and trade fair
booths. This shift was risky, especially given their limited experience with
digital tools. The primary challenge was to create a website that catered not
only to resellers but also to interior designers—the end users of their
products. This required a deep understanding of their audience, which led to the
creation of "Aurélie," a fictional persona representing their ideal customer.

### **Solution: Optimizely’s role in the transformation**

Understanding the needs and behaviors of "Aurélie" was crucial in guiding
Modular Lighting’s digital transformation. With Optimizely's content management
system (CMS), Modular Lighting was able to create a dynamic and scalable
platform that allowed for real-time content updates and optimization. This shift
empowered the marketing team to focus on creating meaningful customer
experiences rather than being bogged down by technical limitations.

Optimizely's platform also integrated seamlessly with Modular Lighting’s
existing systems, including their product information management (PIM) and
digital asset management (DAM) systems. This holistic approach ensured that the
right content reached the right audience at the right time, significantly
improving the customer journey.

### **Delaware's partnership elevates Modular Lighting to success**

A critical component of Modular Lighting's successful transformation was the
involvement of Delaware, a long-standing partner known for its expertise in SAP
solutions. Delaware played an instrumental role in guiding Modular Lighting
through the complexities of their digital transformation. With their deep
understanding of both the technical and business aspects, Delaware provided
essential support in implementing and integrating the various systems, including
Optimizely CMS and Delaware's existing PIM and DAM platforms. Their
approachability and solution-oriented mindset were key in bridging the gap
between Modular’s marketing and IT teams, ensuring that every decision made was
in the best interest of the customer. Delaware's involvement not only
facilitated the smooth execution of the project but also helped lay the
foundation for future digital initiatives, making them an indispensable partner
in Modular Lighting's journey.

### **Results: A cultural and technological shift**

The implementation of Optimizely's CMS marked a significant cultural and
technological shift for Modular Lighting. The team moved from a product-centric
mindset to a customer-centric approach, constantly questioning whether their
strategies aligned with the needs of their customers. This cultural shift,
combined with the technological advancements enabled by Optimizely, led to a
"conversion culture" within the company.

The new website, optimized for interior designers, saw a significant improvement
in user engagement and conversions. The project also laid the groundwork for
future innovations, including a self-service customer portal, a powerful
recommendation engine, and enhanced order management systems.

### **Conclusion: Optimizely as a catalyst for future growth**

The collaboration between Modular Lighting and Optimizely not only addressed
immediate challenges but also set the stage for long-term success. By bridging
the gap between marketing and IT, and by providing a scalable platform for
growth, Optimizely played a crucial role in Modular Lighting’s ongoing digital
transformation. The partnership has positioned Modular Lighting to continue
innovating and meeting the evolving needs of their customers in the years to
come.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Content Management System
