# How to take 70,000 furniture options digital

Endless design possibilities can be made simple. Make an inspiring digital
experience that guides customers from inspiration to conversion.

## **Digital transformation of a modern classic**

Introduced in 1982, the Montana shelving system is a modern classic. In the
digital age, this outstanding Danish design remains as useful and stylish as
ever. But with 42 colors available and more than 70,000 product options in all,
establishing an online storefront proved to be a challenge. To help customers
navigate through inspiration and customize their products, Montana Furniture
teamed up with digital commerce experts at Impact, an Optimizely Gold Solutions
partner.

They started by listening to customers. Montana quickly learned that online
shoppers don’t care much for ‘starting at’ prices. They want to see the actual
price and design for their selected style and expect a seamless journey from
decision to purchase.

Guided by such customer insights, Impact helped Montana devise a roadmap for an
extensive digital transformation. This was followed up with a clear-cut plan for
rolling out a unified content and commerce solution. One that would radically
transform the customer experience as well as and business processes.

Optimizely’s Digital Experience Platform serves as the hub for digital content
and commerce while tools providing additional key functionality were integrated,
including InRiver for product information management and Cylindo for
visualization.

The result is an intelligent 3D product configurator that enables Montana to
bring more than 70,000 different products to life in photorealistic 4K quality.
Customers can customize any product and see them up close, before adding them to
the basket.

Another way to put it - Montana now offers a digital customer experience that
truly reflects the brand promise: Endless possibilities.

We have created an online atmosphere that provides nearly the same experience as
a physical store.

Claes Hansen

Head of e-Commerce, Montana Furniture

## **About Montana Furniture**

Since 1982, family-owned Montana Furniture has provided generations with
personalized storage solutions The Danish high-end furniture company was founded
by Peter J. Lassen, who also created the modular Montana shelving system.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Customer's website

http://www.montanafurniture.com/

## In collaboration with:

IMPACT A/S

IMPACT is Scandinavia's leading full-service e-commerce consultancy specializing
in digital commerce solutions and experiences that transform businesses.
