# How 8 MORSCO brands evolved with B2B Commerce Cloud

## A deeply rooted, century-long commitment to providing high quality products

Though MORSCO was founded in November 2011, its roots date all the way back to 1917. MORSCO derived its name from one of its powerhouse plumbing supply brands,
Morrison Supply Company, whose nickname was MORSCO for decades after its
inception.

Throughout the course of nine decades, Morrison had become the strongest
independent plumbing supply company in the Southwest. By 2011, Morrison had
aggressive goals to expand and become the nation’s leading plumbing and HVAC
distributor by assembling the very best regional businesses and people in their
industry.

The expansion kicked into gear in January 2012 when MORSCO added 13 new
locations in Southern California and acquired Express Pipe & Supply. Just as
they set out to do, over the next few years MORSCO opened more locations and
assembled the best talent by acquiring more businesses.

Today, MORSCO is a leading U.S. distributor of commercial and residential
plumbing, waterworks, heating and cooling equipment (HVAC), and pipe, valves and
fittings (PVF) and is comprised of a family of eight long-established local
distributors. MORSCO distributes more than 100,000 national and private label
products to more than 40,000 customers.

Optimizely Configured Commerce is one of the leading eCommerce platforms for
B2B. Optimizely Configured Commerce understands the complexities of B2B right
out of the box.

Darren Taylor

Chief Marketing Officer, MORSCO

## Responding to customers’ changing expectations

For decades, distribution businesses have been run on relationships. People buy
from people. People trust people. As technology has advanced, customers’
expectations have evolved. Customers still expect strong relationships, but they
also expect to be able to leverage technology to do business.

That’s why for distributors like MORSCO, digital transformation is essential. To
survive and bring their business into the future, MORSCO had to respond to
changing customer expectations – they needed solutions that would serve
customers exactly how they wanted to be served, 24 hours a day, seven days per
week.

Changing customer expectations and competitive pressures drove MORSCO to build
and invest in a robust ecommerce strategy. Prior to 2015, none of MORSCO’s
brands were leveraging an ecommerce platform. The company knew they had to make
changes.

## Key priorities in leveraging ecommerce

When they first launched their journey into ecommerce and transformation,
MORSCO’s key priority was to make it easier for customers to conduct business
with them. In addition, they wanted to improve organizational efficiencies and
provide better service at a lower cost for both the customer and the company as
a whole. Traditionally, MORSCO sales representatives spent valuable time and
resources completing tasks like checking orders, generating quotes, checking
invoices and more – things an ecommerce platform would excel at.

Efficiency and ease of doing business weren’t the only goals MORSCO set for
ecommerce. The company also knew that with the right strategy and the right
technology, ecommerce would set them up to grow share of wallet with current
customers and acquire new customers through digital marketing.

**Meeting the complexities of B2B**

There are multiple complexities involved in MORSCO’s business. The company is
made up of multiple brands, serves a diverse set of customers and provides a
large breadth of products. When MORSCO began their search for the right
ecommerce platform, they needed technology that was built for the complexities.

MORSCO needed to build an experience that would accommodate complex online
transactions, specific to a customer’s particular wants or needs. They needed to
provide their customers more control over what, when, and how they could access
account information, including invoice retrieval, order status and other
information.

They recognized that it wasn’t just about deploying a simple website. For
MORSCO, building an eCommerce solution was about bringing relationships and
processes together. They needed to serve customers that had multiple roles and
multiple processes with different authority levels and budgets.

**Launching ecommerce for Farnsworth**

In 2017, MORSCO launched its first online experience for the Farnsworth brand.
Leveraging Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud, MORSCO transformed a rarely accessed,
archaic product information library into an easily viewable and downloadable
product catalog containing vital information like installation guides,
warranties and spec sheets. The site enabled customers to easily search product
information, get real-time product availability and accelerate the ordering
process through online cart and checkout functionality.

Not long after its implementation, the Farnsworth solution delivered remarkable
results for the company. With critical and otherwise time consuming tasks like
quoting, invoices and proof of delivery being handled online, the solution saved
associates hours every week. Less than 6 months after implementation, more than
25% of Farnsworth orders were being placed online. In addition, overall sales
increased by 10% just one year after implementation.

**MORSCO’s online solutions**

Following Farnsworth, Morrisonsupply.com was the next site to launch. By the end
of 2017 MORSCO had six of MORSCO’s eight brands online. Today, all the brands
leverage Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud.

Each of MORSCO’s online solutions offer a personalized experience that includes:

- Access to more than 200,000 products with technical documents organized into customer-specific catalogs
- Real-time pricing and local availability
- Access to invoices, proof of delivery and other account information
- Integration with a customer’s purchasing system and job management tools
- 24/7 access from a desktop, tablet or mobile phone

## Rising up to the challenge and beating the competition

From the beginning, it was never about deploying a simple website. It was always
focused on making customers’ lives easier. MORSCO’s online solutions deliver
ease of digital self-service while enabling more complex transactions that
require the personal attention of sales associates.

Overall, MORSCO has driven more than 1.5 million new digital self-service events
online. The transformation wasn’t just about checking the box with a website.
MORSCO transformed their entire company by recognizing exactly what their
customers wanted.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

http://www.morsco.com/
