# Motoral supplies 12.5% of orders through recommendations

A commerce platform designed for human engagement online through detailed
personalization. Finnish wholesaler use Optimizely to deliver a B2B portal with
the customer at heart

## At a glance

- 12.5% of orders supplied through recommendations
- 25,000 product line items
- 100M pricing combinations

One group to harness the power of artificial intelligence was the Finnish
wholesale company, Motoral for which the benefits of AI have not been limited to
its online B2B store, but have also improved the entire company's sales.

Motoral, whose history dates back to the 1940s, has become one of Finland's most
important players in the field of vehicular and transport-related products. The
corporation, which operates with a turnover of over €70 million, has found a new
competitive advantage in an efficient online store and customer-specific
personalization enabled by Optimizely.

The online store, built on Optimizely’s Customer-Centric Digital Experience
Platform, was launched by Motoral in 2014. According to Motoral's development
manager Henri Ström, building a B2B online store is no easy task from the
standpoint of business operations and the requirements placed on the technology.
In a consumer web store, all customers are generally offered the same price,
whereas a wholesaler's pricing system is customer-specific, with many different
levels. It is particularly complicated at Motoral, whose selection includes up
to 25,000 products. Motoral currently works with over 9,000 businesses, so the
number of product-price combinations runs into the hundreds of millions.

"If you set out to do business on the web with a platform that isn't designed
for precisely this kind of use, you quickly end up with makeshift solutions that
are less than ideal," Ström explains.

Adding to the challenge is the diversity of Motoral's clientele, from major
industry players to small service stations and garages.

"Our range of products is broken up into catalogs appealing to the mentalities
of different customers. What interested us about Optimizely from the beginning
is that it makes the online store's content easy to personalize for different
users."

Each of Motoral's customer groups has its own, personalized front page for the
web store. This makes the user experience more human and fulfiling. The view
seen by a customer from a small garage, for example, will not include birch
logs, and sets of springs for heavy vehicles will not be marketed to service
stations. With the current solution, Motoral is able not only to segment its
customer groups efficiently, but also to engage in the customer-specific pricing
that is typical in B2B commerce.

"A mass of 100 million lines are updated in our system each night. Each customer
sees the specific price that is right for him or her," Ström says.

Optimizely Personalization began to produce results for us on the very first day

- we immediately noticed that there was amazing potential here

Motoral

Motoral went to the next level in its online store, and began using Optimizely
Personalization, Optimizely's intelligent personalization suite of omnichannel
solutions for commerce, content and search personalization. The motivation for
this move was not merely an interest in the possibilities, but also a desire to
find products to offer their customers, out of a 25,000-product selection, in a
more efficient manner.

"Optimizely Personalization began to produce results for us on the very first
day - we immediately noticed that there was amazing potential here," says Ström.

According to Ström, Motoral has long placed a premium on knowing their
customers.

"We know their addresses and phone numbers, and we can go and meet them at any
time. We see what they have bought from us, and our sales staff in the field
know them personally. Artificial intelligence has brought a great deal more to
the whole equation," Ström explains.

"Optimizely Personalization allows us to adopt an entirely different strategy in
regards to what we offer the customer, and we are able to offer products much
more efficiently than we could before."

According to Ström, one of the strategies entrusted to Optimizely was to offer
products that a customer has not bought yet, but that are generally purchased in
the same orders as products that the customer normally buys.

"For example, earlier, we conducted email campaigns with promotions and offers
that I think were very well targeted and well thought out, but we discovered
time after time that even this did not work as well as expected. Now, we have
made email campaigns entirely automatic - we no longer product anything for them
ourselves. Optimizely has generated messages automatically, on the basis of the
strategies we have laid out."

The emails generated by Optimizely Email Recommendations, the email piece of the
intelligent personalization suite from Optimizely, are now bringing up to four
times more clicks to the online store than manually-composed messages. According
to Ström, the potential power of AI-generated email campaigns is still largely
untapped.

"In other words, we know our customers, but at the same time we are not really
acquainted with them. We clearly do not know exactly what will interest a
specific customer and when."

In particular, the right time for offering a product can be better determined
through AI, according to Ström. This is valuable for Motoral given its large
selection of products.

"The same space that was previously used for product recommendations is now put
to more efficient use," Ström explains.

AI and analytics forming an efficient whole

According to Henri Ström, Optimizely differs from many other groups that utilize
artificial intelligence. In addition to AI, Optimizely customers get a skilled
analytics team and support to help them get the most out of customer data.

"Optimizely is not just a software vendor - they are also actively thinking
about how AI is utilized in business," Ström says.

"Optimizely's analytics team is able to respond to problems they are presented
with - for example, if we have a new brand and we want to know who it should be
marketed to. They are able to break down our customer data, buying behavior, and
people's activity at the online store, and send us guidelines on the basis of
this that tell us 'sell to these customers'," Ström explains.

Optimizely also offers Motoral an opportunity to support its sales team in an
entirely new way. For example, the AI and analytics team now has the ability to
help the sales staff by putting together targeted lists of products that
different customers might be interested in. In addition to the online store,
this also enables sales staff in the field to make contact with the right
customers at the right time.

The use of AI is also visible in Motoral's online sales, where 12.5% of orders
already include products purchased on the basis of recommendation.

However, a comprehensive analysis of sales numbers produced by Optimizely
Personalization is still in its early stages. Besides the online store,
customers are able to order products from Motoral through 3-4 additional
channels, and this makes analysis of customer activity at the online store or in
email campaigns challenging. For example, an order may come to Motoral via field
sales, even if an email sent through Optimizely Reach may have been in the
background of that decision.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Commerce Connect

#### Customer's website

http://www.motoral.fi/
