# Napoleon brings all business online with Commerce Cloud

Competing toe-to-toe with some of the largest retail distributors on the globe,
Napoleon deploys Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud to bolster digital experiences
for their dealer network.

## Building an iconic ecommerce platform, for an iconic brand

The Napoleon brand is truly iconic in the world of BBQ grills and outdoor
living. Steeped in history, the roots and story behind this company hail back
some 44 years to its origins, a migrated couple called Wolfgang and Ingrid
Schroeter living in Canada. The pair, in pursuit of excellence, began making
wood stoves for friends which turned into one of North America's fastest growing
privately owned Grill and Fireplaces manufacturers with an extensive dealer
network reaching over 50 countries.

Napolean wanted a cloud-based solution to create an online channel for its
dealer network. The online channel needed to give dealers access to key product
information and availability and up to the minute insights into the status of
current orders and overall account activity. The solution would be accessible
from the retail floor or HQ 24/7 and both mobile and tablet responsive.

Napoleon chose to work with Optimizely (formerly known as Episerver) to rollout
the B2B Commerce Cloud solution across its business. The major advantages being
a constantly evolving and improving cloud-based solution rich with features that
free up time for internal staff and make the order processing and stock
availability slick and easy to handle.

1 col | FullWidth | Container
Quote Block (New): New Block

## The opportunity to augment its ability to serve customers

The business serve a large gas distributor network comprising of various levels
of gas professionals in North America and Europe. In addition to selling via
this channel, Napoleon also sell into large retailers - what they call the ''Big
Box Channel''. It's not only the showpiece BBQs sold either. The offering
extends to installation products including fireplaces and furnaces.

The dealer network is able to confidently sell more and a wider range of
products due to the seamless digital experience B2B Commerce Cloud offers.
Taking the offline business fully online has eliminated email and fax orders and
reduced telephone orders via the call centre by almost half. The dealer network
has found it accelerates sales and shortens lead times plus puts the power back
in the customers’ hands by having real time information at hand, at the point of
purchase. Service levels and customer satisfaction have seen an increase due to
more value-added work being carried out by the sales teams across the Napoleon
and dealer network users.

Safe in the knowledge that the ROI payback of the B2B Commerce Cloud solution
has been realised within 8 months of using the technology, Napoleon is looking
at ways of further incorporating cloud-based technology into its systems and
future road map. The future technology will all be aimed at ensuring Napoleon
puts the customer at the heart of its processes and continues in the words of
the team at Napoleon “to delight” its customers.

#### Customer's website

https://www.napoleon.com/
