# NRL brings 19 websites & 7 digital properties under one roof

How Optimizely is helping transform a scrum of sites into one seamless,
efficient content hub for millions of visitors every week.

## At a glance

- 34% YoY increase in user base
- 3 Million average weekly users
- Significant increase in engagement from fans via NRL app

## Top of their game

The National Rugby League (NRL) is Australia’s top-level domestic men’s rugby
league competition. It contains clubs from the original Sydney club Rugby League
competition, which has been running continuously since 1908.

Today the NRL has over 5.4 million fans in Australia and its digital network is
a hub for all things rugby league. The NRL Premiership attracts about 3 million
people to its matches, with more than 100 million viewers on television. Content
production is one of the NRL's key functions as they now see an average 100’s of
million sessions and almost double in page views per year.

## Complex technology infrastructure

With 19 websites and 7 non-web digital properties such as social media, mobile
applications, and over-the-top service, NRL receives 4 million visitors per week
across its channels.

NRL's decentralised technology infrastructure was holding them back. The old
platform had multiple external tools for content management that were not
integrated. This created a disruptive workflow, especially for the content team,
due to the lack of seamless processes to develop and optimize content across
different digital properties.

The lack of advanced integrations and features also meant that there were
limitations in the type of content and experiences it could provide to its fans,
along with the analytics and intelligence to make the right decisions within
their content production lifecycles.

The lack of sophisticated features also meant that NRL was publishing blanket
content and unable to understand the data behind its campaigns and promotions.
Engaging content is subjective: without a customised or personalized experience,
great content can seem haphazard. With no proper data in the mix, it’s a recipe
for poor traffic and engagement. Domenic and his team knew that this needed to
change.

_"We needed to connect our content and data together into a central publishing
platform from across our business in a way that allows us to produce highly
valuable user experiences, giving the NRL network the capability to offer
targeted content and commercialisation solutions,"_ said Domenic Romeo.

We produce a significant amount of content daily and needed a technology
architecture that allowed us to perform this at scale across a network of 19
organisations including NRL, our Clubs and States.

Domenic Romeo

Head of Technology, National Rugby League

## Unifying technologies into one platform

To get better control and visibility into its online operations, NRL
transitioned all its sites to a consolidated **Optimizely Content
Cloud**solution**.** This gave it a robust, unified and cost-effective CMS,
instead of an expensive, overly-complex, legacy technology architecture.

One of the most important things was to create a seamless workflow by
consolidating NRL's owned technologies under a single platform. This has
tremendously improved work efficiency within the organization and removed a lot
of work duplication. For example, content syndication was simplified, as the new
platform allows the content team to easily create and repurpose each piece of
content depending on the medium to be published, such as mobile and TV apps.

The tightly integrated network and intuitive user experience made it easier for
NRL to navigate the new CMS. The **Optimizely Content Management Platform**
provides ease of use from creating to publishing content, enabling NRL to post
instantaneously, especially when it comes to breaking news. Searching for assets
can be difficult especially when there's no proper system in place. However, the
Optimizely Search & Navigation function made it easy for the content team to
locate assets. While these features may sound simple, they can significantly
affect an organization's productivity.

## Harnessing data for a competitive edge

Data has now become an essential part of NRL's online engagement to maximize its
digital efforts. Every piece of content is now focused and tailored according to
NRL's audience segment, leading NRL to double the size of its audience and
significantly increase engagement. The content team can also monitor visitor
engagement with different websites to better understand their online
behaviors.“It’s a very fine system which is easy to use. It was clearly well set
up with a lot of thought going into it. The drop and drag functions make it easy
to use and compared to other content management systems it is head and shoulders
above the rest that I have used in a few previous newsrooms” says Paul Suttor,
Editor in Chief NRL.com

Using the Optimizely CMS has made a significant difference. From increasing team
productivity, to reducing infrastructure complexity and ultimately driving
traffic and engagement. A robust CMS can help an organization grow. "It has been
a game-changer for us centralising our architecture around the Optimizely CMS
platform. It helped the organization to focus on work that really matters rather
than managing complex technology architectures. Now we can better analyse
visitor data, generate insights and improve our future and current digital
initiatives to fit user demands. All the content we produce is much more
targeted and valuable, driving higher engagement. We couldn’t have done this on
our old systems, moving everything to a single platform has been critical,” said
Quanah McBride, General Manager – Digital Technology & Operations

Read the National Rugby League 2020 Annual Report here

#### Industry

Media and entertainment

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

http://www.nrl.com/
