# Navico

World's largest marine electronics manufacturer, Navico make waves on Optimizely

## Ruling the Waves

Leaders in the design and manufacture of world-class marine navigation,
autopilot, radar and communication systems, Navico Group are one of the largest
manufacturers of marine electronics in the world.

With an enormous distribution network, spanning more than 100 countries, Navico
have completed their major project setup of an integrated global B2C ecommerce
solution allowing the business to sell directly to consumers. This is in
addition to the B2B selling experience they provide to their professional
audience.

## Local Talk to a Global Audience

Optimizely's customer-centric platform helps Navico deliver a powerful ecommerce
gateway purpose-built for their growing customer set. To help navigate its vast
portfolio and foster an inclusive solution, Navico take advantage of
Optimizely's multi-lanugage Content Cloud, handing their global customer base
product descriptions with a native style.

## Manufacturing Satellites, in the Cloud

Built on the Microsoft Azure cloud platform, Navico's digital infrastructure is
always on. Given their global operations, they take comfort in the knowlege
their sites won't suffer from outages or downtine. All updates and maintainence
are delivered without interrupting security operations.

The development team are able to remain nimble and agile, equipped to deploy
seamless integration with other services and systems. Optimizely's cloud
offering creates a new development standard to the digital space, signaling
Navico as the digital leaders within their market.

I think the key thing about being on Episerver is I don't have to worry about
down time. That's nice.

Glyn Jones

Web Development Project Manager, Navico

## Propelling Forward

By concentrating on the fundamentals first, Navico have seen the stability the
Episerver Commerce Cloud delivers and are ready to delve into other aspects of
Episerver's suite. As their digital journey continues, the marine equipment
leaders are looking at Product Recommendations, Email Recommendations and
Analytics to make their consumer experience even more responsive, revenue-
generating and water-tight.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution
