# Netafim

From a traditional B2B player to an increasingly data-driven organization.
Netafim describe their journey of further growth through the digital lens.

## Regaining contact with the end user, the farmer...without cutting out regular

dealers

Netafim is the world's largest irrigation company and a leading producer of
drippers, sprinklers, and other irrigation accessories, as well as digital tools
for irrigation management such as sensors, crop management software, and remote
operation systems. They are also a turn-key agricultural project company
executing huge projects for farmers, corporates, and governments. The B2B
manufacturers operate a complex business environment with distribution partners,
suppliers and dealers and have been doing so for years. With new digital
capabilities, the company is looking for a stronger connection with the end
user: the farmer, in order to increase demand to their offering.

Although the end user is typically a farmer, the chain has many layers, from
distribution partners to NGOs and governments. All these are located across the
globe, meaning collaborations from India to Italy, Mexico to China.

## The journey to personalization

Netafim also take advantage of personalization features including visitor
groups. They smartly develop personas against the agencies they cater to,
including farmers, investors, and governments. That way, they understand whether
the chosen direction is the right one, whilst delivering super relevant content
across the site.

Netafim have made the content simpler and applied storytelling techniques at
such a level that someone from outside the sector understands the general scope
of our products and services. Technical details and customized calculations help
a buyer through their buying journey. The final deal is done offline. Providing
valuable information online and tools that convert visitors into new customers
is a priority.

## This sector has always been very traditional. People really do not approach

you through digital channels

The entire industry thought small farmers, that could not be reached online,
would be digitally inept. Netafim rejected that idea. They are finalizing the
global infrastructure of 16 website with another 10 added in 2020.

## Content strategy that provides access to all

There are millions of farmers worldwide that on the outskirts of being reached,
but they do access Netafim thanks to searches in Google, or Yandex in Russia and
Baidu in China. SEO plays a crucial role in digital growth and is regarded as a
long-term investment. Thought leadership themes generate the most traffic, via
SEO and via social channels providing evidence that content is the master in
boosting awareness.

## Every change must be holistic

Netafim have a roadmap for the future. They know the technology is there and as
their knowledge grows, they will continue to integrate it with current processes
and products. The organization is ‘digital ready’, in that regard, growing from
a traditional B2B player to an increasingly data-driven organization. Something
they know they will have to build in order to maintain their competitive nature
to grow further in the coming years.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

http://www.netafim.com/

## In collaboration with:

delaware

We are an entity with 250+ consultants, we continuously invests in improving
customer engagement and omnichannel competences.
