# NNE masters a collaborative space for global colleagues

## Greater knowledge sharing

To support the company and make it possible to keep a fast "time-to-market" NNE
chose to use Optimizely technology for their corporate web, intranet, and
community.

By implementing a user-friendly interface, employees are able to collaborate in
virtual teams across national borders and ensure continued momentum in the
enterprise.

## Greater cross boarder cooperation

NNE wanted to set up a Facebook-like community for their own staff. With offices
in more than 25 locations across the world, the goal was for its 1600 staff is
to share knowledge, communicate and collaborate.

With Optimizely, NNE has created a community which has clubs, blogs and
discussion forums which all contribute to the sense that all the employees
belong to one fully connected organization.

There is greater cross border cooperation and collaboration between colleagues.
‘Ourbook’ has become an integrated daily work tool which enhances social and
work-related communities of interest.

Our internal community has changed working practices within NNE. We now
communicate directly with our colleagues. Everything is open and our staff can
share their knowledge with others. Ourbook definitely promotes greater colleague
cooperation.

CARINA BØLLING

Web Manager, Global IT Solutions, NNE

## Global success examples

Martin Poulsen – IT Manager, NNE tells Optimizely about a scenario that
highlights the benefits they see today. "Eric {a colleague} heard that one of
his colleagues in Germany needed a URS for an autoclave, but no one in Germany
could help him. He went to the tags and found "autoclave", when clicking on it
he got Luciano and Liwen as a search result, so he sent them a mail asking for
help. Luciano answered right away and now they are in contact to see what can be
useful for the project in Germany. Great!

Another example is of a colleague, Dennis who had problems printing a file from
Visio. He went to the tags in Ourbook and when typing "visio" he found out that
Peter, who sits on the same floor in the office, had tagged himself with that
word. In a couple of minutes Peter was able to help Dennis with that problem.
Isn't it fantastic? This is how much time we can save by using Ourbook!"

#### Industry

Tech

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

http://www.nne.com/
