# Nobia

Europe’s leading kitchen specialist, Nobia, dish digital transformation across
their portfolio of brands with Optimizely

## A disjointed network

Nobia was faced with the challenge of having separate websites for its brands,
each developed in-house together with different suppliers and across different
platforms. The features differed from site to site, and hosting was managed by a
mix of external suppliers.

Nobia wanted to create a future external web platform on Optimizely and find a
long-term strategic partner to develop and support it. Following a rigorous
procurement process, NetRelations was chosen as partner, and an exciting journey
towards a new web platform began in the spring of 2013.

## Realising Digital Ambitions

The technical web platform that emerged under the name Hercules is built on
Optimizely CMS in combination with peripheral products, services, and
integrations. This was valued as the best technical solution again Nobia’s
ambitions.

The overall functionality includes:

- Extremely flexible template system using blocks to create dynamic solutions within and between websites
- Booking management for meetings, with links to ERP, CRM, and email systems
- Image gallery based on ImageVault 4 and Optimizely Find
- Optimizely Commerce Catalog for orders
- Collaboration workspace between customers and kitchen stores, with unique customer accounts to enable remote planning of their kitchen purchases
- Capability to integrate external CRM systems for tracking prospect activity

When building the Hercules platform, Optimizely Premium Partner NetRelations,
focused on maximizing the potential of the blocks method, which offers enormous
flexibility for controlling both appearance and logic within and between the
various brands’ own websites.

The entire solution demanded the utmost in providing a modern, flexible and
accessible user experience that would work seamlessly between different devices.
A huge effort in responsive-design has created one of the market’s most
effective mobile interfaces.

The solution also needed to consider a global market comprised of different
units, languages and behavioral trends.

The entire Group’s digital marketing and web platforms now converge in a single
Optimizely enterprise solution, whose configuration and version management are
the only elements that differ when delivering the websites for Poggenpohl, HTH
or another one of Nobia’s brands.

The spring of 2013 saw the launch of the first website, poggenpohl.com, on the
Hercules platform as a proof-of-concept site. In 2014, the first full-scale
website was launched based on Hercules, followed by the successful launch of all
brand websites throughout 2014-2015. E-commerce functionality was also launched
in 2015.

### Simplifying the buying process through digital

From dreams of a new kitchen to a long-lasting relationship. Committing to
buying a kitchen requires a large purchasing decision from the customer. The
main purpose of building the digital was to simplify the customer journey.

To reflect this purpose, each individual brand site was developed to simplify
and enhance the customer experience for visitors who had bought or were
considering buying a kitchen.

Nobia wanted to mark a clear transition from the static catalog to a powerful
lead generation tool. The goal of the new digital solution was to create a
central point of control for content production.

The web solution, therefore, uses a service design perspective as its starting
point, where each individual feature, content item or service supports one or
more elements of the customer journey.

### Inspirational content = customer engagement

The goal is to inspire and engage potential customers, drive relevant traffic to
the physical stores (from an omnichannel perspective) and simply make it easier
to buy a kitchen. So, from the outset, Nobia focused on creating inspirational
content, simplifying customer dialogue and creating a higher integration and
value add between the digital and the physical customer interaction.

### Brand engagement

Engagement begins in a connection outside of a brand’s website with a strong
focus on presence and interaction, one that creates digital visibility in
channels like social media. There are two ways to Nobia engage with social
media; by sharing content from the current website and by getting inspiration
from external channels and storing it on the site’s digital collaboration
workspace.

### KPIs simplify prioritization and development

When developing the functionality, content, and services for each site and for
the platform, NetRelations and Nobia kept a sharp focus on measurement and
analysis from day one, using tools like Google Universal Analytics and Tag
Manager.

Right from the outset, measurement methods and zero values were established.
Since the launch, KPIs have been continuously evaluated and then used to support
development priorities as well as enhancements to established functionality.

In addition to the detailed report, the major KPIs are aggregated in a
dashboard. This dashboard overview enables the various stakeholders to compare
themselves with each other and learn from each other.

The dashboard, also built on Optimizely, is built on a separate domain in order
to make it available to everyone. By using Optimizely integrations for the
platform, Google Analytics, and Facebook, data is retrieved and then visualized
in charts with clear indicators.

This information, both within and between the different brands, is also
available to support marketers so that they can draw conclusions about trends
and behavior across and between markets.

Qualitative user studies are provided on an ongoing basis by other external
partners to Nobia, who conduct in-depth interviews and user analyses.

### A business-driven solution that achieves established targets

Today, conclusions and business benefits have been documented to support ROI as
well as the goal of more satisfied customers and increased sales.

- Organic traffic has increased by approximately 30%.
- 15-20% of visitors visit the image gallery. These visitors tend to continue to store more than other visitors do.
- The most valuable conversion on the sites takes place when a visitor books an appointment with a kitchen designer. Since the launch, the total number of appointments increased by 20% thanks to simplified workflows and a more targeted digital marketing effort to achieve this target. In addition to direct appointments, the sites deliver beyond expectations when it comes to getting a bigger share of the visitors to search for and find information about the stores.

Besides the business benefits mentioned above, strong synergies and better
quality and continuity are achieved by creating and operating a common platform
where all Nobia brands can share the development and administrative costs
associated with their digital marketing efforts and the web. Quality assurance
is simplified, too, when headquarters can serve as a center of excellence.

### Actual specific customer value created is a simpler, faster and easier

interaction between the customer and the brand.

With the power of Optimizely's Content Cloud, visitors can choose to engage by
creating their own account where they can gather inspirational ideas. Whenever
they want to, the visitors can then share all the information with a selected
kitchen store to speed up and simplify the buying process. It’s precisely this
ability to collaborate with the customer through digital collaboration
workspaces that have sped up the buying process and has created a much greater
understanding of customer motivation and behavior.

This combination results in greater customer engagement even before the in-
person interaction as well as opportunities for more proactive lead nurturing
throughout the process.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Content Management System
