# Norsk Hydro uses AI recommendations to act on unique interests

Building a future by facilitating sustainable engagement with global
stakeholders. Discover how Norsk Hydro uses Optimizely to progress their
culture.

## At a glance

- 600% increase in unique CTR
- 319% increase in CTR
- 200% increase in goal conversions

## Renewable recommendations

Norsk Hydro ASA is a Norwegian aluminium and renewable energy company,
headquartered in Oslo. It is one of the largest aluminium companies worldwide
operating in 50 countries on all continents and employing over 30,000 people.
The organization is committed to leading the way towards a more sustainable
future, creating more viable societies by developing natural resources into
products and solutions in innovative and efficient ways.

Norsk Hydro needed an automated and intelligent content strategy to help build a
website with personalized content by region and persona. Having used outdated
automated translation and personalization content tools in the past, the team
was keen to find a solution that benefits the site visitor and is easy to
navigate from the backend, by the digital team by removing arduous manual
processes.

Quote Block (New): New Block

## Personalizing the story to a greater extent

Optimizely’s Web Content Recommendations was the perfect tool for Norsk Hyrdo’s
project. AI-powered recommendations act upon the unique interests of each
visitor in real-time to help Norsk Hydro deliver personalization with minimal
manual effort and serve each visitor the most relevant content automatically.

AI-powered interest profiling technology generates first-party intent data
profiles for all visitors, even if the visitor is anonymous. This real-time
interest profile at the individual level serves as the foundation for 1:1
recommendations.

Norsk Hydro now has a fully automated process in place. Optimizely’s Web Content
Recommendations enable the business to maximize the relevance of its content for
each visitor to encourage deeper engagement with recommendations powered by
real-time. The team is able to filter relevant content from a reliable source
that allows the website to drive high value personalized content. The machine
learning algorithm does the heavy lifting of choosing who gets what content
without bogging the team down with endless "if/else" rules, yet allows for
manual interaction if required to empower local editors. The team can now easily
measure uplift and results with the built-in dashboard which provides clear
metrics on the uplift from recommendations enabling them to quantify the value
of personalization.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Products used

- Recommendations
- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

http://www.hydro.com/
