# Northern Radiator sees 30% of overall sales driven online

Heating and cooling distributor drives more than one-third of all sales online
with B2B Commerce Cloud

## Nearly 50 years of heating and cooling expertise

Since 1971, Northern Radiator has been sourcing and engineering high-quality
heating and cooling products and programs. With 20 regional distribution centers
throughout the United States, Northern Radiator prides itself on delivering
quality engineered products with quick order turnaround times and superior order
filling.

As end-users began finding new ways to source products and leverage technology
to research their options, Northern Radiator knew they needed to build a more
prominent online presence.

## A sales plateau on the old system

Northern Radiator’s original eCommerce system was a simple transactional
eCommerce site powered by Infor Storefront. The site hit a sales plateau and was
not meeting customers’ expectations. Northern Radiator wanted to better serve
the needs of their customer base.

Considering Northern Radiator sells to nearly 30 different customer types, they
were challenged with creating relevant and intuitive solutions for both late
adopters of technology and web-savvy users. They wanted to provide real-time
access to availability, pricing and ordering to give their customers the edge
they need to compete in today’s market.

The flexibility with the Episerver B2B Commerce Cloud platform versus the Infor
platform, which was the storefront we were on previously, allows us to do
eCommerce the way we want to do business. We don’t have to conform to someone
else’s rigid box.

Hope Thompson

President , Northern Radiator

## Narrowing the search for a better solution

Northern Radiator settled on Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud because Insite
Software (acquired by Optimizely in December 2019) was taking the time to
understand their business model, future needs and assist in addressing their
market challenges. Northern Radiator appreciated the B2B focus of the Optimizely
B2B Commerce Cloud platform.

With Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud, Northern Radiator is enabling customers to
self-serve. Customers can easily sign-in and view information like pricing and
real-time inventory.

## Positioned for growth

For Northern Radiator success means business growth, exceeding customers’
expectations and continuous improvement. Today, just over one-third of the
company’s sales comes through their online channel. They are continually
deploying new website features to meet customers’ needs.

Many companies like Northern Radiator were built on relationships and
handshakes, so tailoring their solutions to customers who prefer to self-serve
online proves to be a major shift in business – a challenging but necessary
endeavor.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

http://www.northernfactory.com/

## In collaboration with:

Nishtech Inc

Nishtech is a full-service ecommerce and digital experience consultancy and have
been named as Optimizely's Preferred Partner for implementing Optimizely Content
Management and Configured Commerce integrated...
