# Childline, NSPCC helps kids speak out and stay safe

The Childline website launched in UK primary schools in September 2018 and is
now promoted to young children alongside the helpline . Performance monitoring
assesses the impact on helping younger people speak out while keeping them safe
from abuse online.

## A monumental shift in online safety for all children across the UK

The NSPCC is the leading UK charity concerned with the fight against child
abuse.

Childline work tirelessly to provide free and confidential support to young
people, 24/7. They joined forces with NSPCC in 2006 with the sole focus of
providing counselling services on a variety of sensitive topics from bullying to
sexual abuse and relationships. The largest audience for Childline is 12-18 year
olds, with content on its website created to instil self-resilience and
confidence in young people.

Devoted to helping children of all ages, Childline promote their services to
under 12s through the ‘Speak Out, Stay Safe’ school programme, supported by
content on the NSPCC website. However, with content written primarily for an
older audience, NSPCC recognized the need to improve the experience for a
younger age range.

NSPCC appointed Optimizely partner, Netcel to advise and plan on how a website
personalization strategy might be employed to protect younger Childline
audiences from more mature content, without alienating older users. A core aim
of the project was to encourage under 12s to call the Childline helpline rather
than self-help. Additionally, it was important to fully integrate content and
promotion of the Childline website within the Speak Out, Stay Safe programme
while reducing concerns from parents and teachers over the nature of the content
delivered.

The first challenge to overcome was the best means of identifying a website
visitor’s age and an important question was raised around whether visitors
should be allowed to self-select their age. However, it was decided that simply
asking them wouldn’t be effective enough, as research showed that some children
might lie about their age.

Through initial workshops, Netcel walked through the art of the possible,
utilizing Childline’s personalization capabilities within Optimizely, the
website’s Digital Experience Platform. Beyond Optimizely’s inbuilt
personalization engine, Netcel explored the possibilities of direct questioning,
progressive profiling, search terms, safe headers, AI Chat and identifying
school IP address.

While each solution was reviewed for their merits, no silver bullet existed to
accurately identify a visitor’s age.

## In charge of their time online

To overcome this challenge, Netcel recommended an layered approach where users
would register for a My Locker (website user) account, utilizing a link from a
specific referred domain and self-select their age, thereby reducing the risk
associated with safeguarding young people under 12. Different URLs were provided
to KS1 and KS2 age groups to ensure that the website only delivered age
appropriate content and messaging. A hierarchy of messaging was also set to
encourage the young person to make contact or take action such as speaking to a
trusted adult, calling Childline, or finding advice and information across the
site.

The second challenge was to consider how and to what extent the content could be
adapted for the younger audience. With limited research and insights available
on the under 12s audience, we devised a user engagement plan to be carried out
in schools as part of a normal school lesson. The insights gleaned supported and
directed decisions over user experience and NSPCC’s subsequent content creation.
Importantly, as a result of the personalization consultancy, Netcel could advise
on the optimum technical implementation, ensuring the investments made within
the Optimizely solution were maximised.

#### Industry

Charity and non-profits

#### Product used

- Content Management System

## In collaboration with:

Netcel Ltd.

Optimizely Customer Choice Partner of the Year 2023 and 2022 Netcel is a leading
digital product consultancy and Optimizely specialist, combining our passion for
digital experience and the full end-to-end...
