# Nykredit utilise Optimizely's headless CMS to create content hub and transform

digital experience

How Danish banking giant partnered with Immeo increased customer sessions by 56%
and built a bespoke content hub with Optimizely's CMS

## At a glance

- 56% increase in customer sessions
- 61% increase in leads converted to opportunities
- Improved time and cost savings
- 80 content editors collaborating on Nykredit’s digital solution

## Denmark's leading financial services company goes digital

With a history dating back to 1851, Nykredit is one of Denmark’s largest
financial services companies, serving over 1 million private customers and
business owners.

Nykredit offers retail and investment banking, mortgage, insurance, leasing,
fixed-income trading, and asset management services. This extensive offering
reflects the number of sites owned by Nykredit.

About 4,000 staff members are servicing private customers and business owners.

The company’s digital transformation was driven by its desire to improve data-
driven personalization and increase integration into Salesforce and other
individual systems.

2016 marked the start of Nykredit's digital transformation with Optimizely.

## Lack of resources and prioritization hampered Nykredit's digital

transformation

Initially, Nykredit’s CMS system and websites were managed by an internal team
but improvements took a backseat when their priority shifted to online banking,
shared Thomas Frydensberg Christoffersen, a Senior Consultant at Nykredit.

With Nykredit’s business growing, it needed a streamlined method to create more
brand-compliant websites.

Senior Digital Specialist of Nykredit, Christoffer Berg, shared that the team
needed a way to quickly replicate and reuse existing assets. To close this gap,
they visualized an internal Content Hub.

As Nykredit increased its self-service capabilities via online banking, it also
increased its use of forms for data collection.

Allan Iskov-Eskebaek, Solution Architect at Nykredit, shared that the team could
only track simple conversions triggered by the form ‘Submit’ button. Allan
detailed that "We couldn’t track our leads. Why did [prospects] go through the
forms? Were they redirected from a third-party system, a commercial, or an email
we sent? When they filled in the form, did we close the sale immediately or did
we have to follow up?"

Without a holistic view of the conversion funnel, they could not accurately
identify the source of leads.

On top of these issues, Nykredit also needed an updated homepage that reflected
its identity as a leader in financial services.

The Nykredit team knew they needed a CMS that would help them close these
digital gaps and be future-ready to meet customers’ ever-evolving expectations.

## Building a holistic view of content and customer profiles with Optimizely

Nykredit looked at available digital solutions providers and narrowed it down to
Optimizely and Sitecore.Ultimately, Nykredit chose Optimizely for its ability to
realize Nykredit's Content Hub vision, a holistic database of its customers
across different websites to trace leads and understand users better.The
Nykredit team knew they needed dedicated resources for their digital
transformation goals. They decided to engage Immeo, an Optimizely partner, for
Immeo’s reputable implementation experience with Optimizely.Berg shared that
Nykredit’s engagement with Immeo evolved from website development to site
architecture on Nykredit’s other subsidiaries. Immeo also worked closely with
Nykredit to maximize the use of Optimizely’s industry-leading capabilities.
Nykredit's relationship with Immeo is extremely strong. Christoffersen shared
that "the Immeo team is great, and they have a strong background with
Optimizely. Their Optimizely developers have helped us in many ways and they’re
able to scale when we have larger-scale projects."Immeo’s flexibility in scaling
according to Nykredit’s project requirements also alleviated a lot of resourcing
woes.Optimizely’s headless CMS provided Nykredit and Immeo the ability to create
open APIs in various formats including JSON and XML easily to connect with
different apps and sites swiftly. The intuitive Optimizely editor also continues
to help ease the process of changing data when needed.With its Content Hub up
and running, the Nykredit team successfully created about 24 new websites using
existing assets with minimal effort and resources using Optimizely’s Authoring &
Layout.Some of Nykredit’s sites, such as Sparinvest, service customers outside
of Denmark. Nykredit leveraged Optimizely’s Languages to translate whole
websites swiftly and accurately.Nykredit began traffic source tracking with
Optimizely Forms, UTM parameters, and Google Analytics, which allowed them to
trace traffic more precisely. Optimizely Forms then sends the correct data into
Salesforce, ensuring that potential leads can be correctly qualified and
categorised, as well as drastically improving the customer experience for
prospects using the forms. Optimizely’s Search & Navigation has helped Nykredit
improve its search experience. Using Optimizely’s Best Bets, Nykredit matches
search phrases with results that best meet users’ expectations while driving
traffic to key pages of the business.Optimizely user-friendly and flexible CMS
interface has created synergy for Nykredit's content authors and developers to
deliver an industry-leading digital experience.

Quote: Nykredit Quote Block 3

### Nykredit Use Case

Nykredit leveraged Optimizely’s integration capabilities to build a lead
identification and qualification process with Google and Salesforce.Nykredit
uses Optimizely Forms to collect data. Form details are routed to Salesforce,
and an in-house code will search for a Danish identity. The code will populate
the entry with more information if there is a match. If there isn’t a match, the
details are entered into Salesforce as a new lead that the internal sales team
can follow up on.

Example of a form on Nykredit’s website

## Nykredit's efforts pay off

The ability to create websites quickly using Nykredit’s Content Hub has helped
the company with time and cost savings. The Content Hub has also increased
Nykredit’s work efficiency through the ease of reusing assets and components.

The Nykredit team now has a comprehensive view of its prospects thanks to its
lead tracking process utilizing Optimizely Forms and other integrations. This
improved understanding of Nykredit's audience provides them with a guide for
future campaigns. Berg shared that Optimizely's user-first interface has helped
onboard around 80 content editors within Nykredit to collaborate simultaneously,
from minor text edits to landing page creations.

## Nykredit's digital future

With its customer database taking shape, the Nykredit team has plans to venture
into end-to-end personalization using a data core service and Salesforce
integration. Once users log into Nykredit’s online banking platform, Nykredit
wants to provide them with a customer journey tailored to the type of Nykredit
services they utilize. In addition, Nykredit is also leveraging its newsletter
to personalize messaging and customer journeys, similar to its plan for its
online banking users. As A/B testing is also on the radar for the Nykredit team,
identifying its customers will aid Nykredit in its strategic plans and guide its
experimentation direction.

#### Industry

Financial services

#### Product used

- Content Management System

## In collaboration with:

Immeo P/S

Immeo is a business-oriented IT consultancy with a strategic focus on digital
business models and solutions.
