## \*\*OnPoint Energy exceed revenue targets, eliminate fraud and reduce customer

acquisition costs with Optimizely's Customized Commerce platform\*\*

Learn how OnPoint Energy utilise Optimizely’s Customized Commerce platform to
help bring order to the chaotic energy market in Texas

## At a glance

- Exceeded Year-1 revenue targets by around 35 %
- Overall enrollment fraud reduced from 90% at launch to practically zero in the space of six months
- Customer Acquisition Cost at around 50% of projections after 180 days
- Insights from Optimizely Data Platform significantly reduce customer churn in a complex market

## **About OnPoint Energy**

Deregulated energy is still the exception, not the rule, in the USA. 19 states
have deregulated in whole or in part, and Texas is one that has embraced
deregulation accounting for the largest US deregulated market.

OnPoint Energy is a Houston-based Retail Electricity Provider (REP) that offers
consumers different electricity packages from different suppliers and also
different sources, such as renewable, blended, solar and so on.

OnPoint seeks to stand out as a trustworthy, reliable, cost effective and
helpful provider in a market that is often characterized as complex and is
occupied by less than ethical players. The brand and approach to the market is
centered around providing energy products that are easy to understand,
competitively priced and backed by exemplary customer service. While the
business only launched a little over a year ago, the brand places emphasis of
the 186 years combined experience of its core personnel.**Focusing on growth**

Keith Dezern, Vice President of Digital Strategy at OnPoint Energy, explained
that the initial focus throughout the first year of using Optimizely has been on
growing the company’s B2C channel by a combination of acquisitions through
digital marketing, affiliates, and organic growth.

He explained they are simultaneously building out the tools and capacity to grow
their B2B business, and this will take center stage in the company’s roadmap for 2024.**Using Optimizely to bring order to chaos**

The REP market has only existed since 1996, and history shows it has not always
been easy for customers to use it to their advantage. Prices change at a
moment’s notice and customers find themselves on an energy rate that is
genuinely the best available one day and wholly uncompetitive the next. This
sort of volatility can breed mistrust, and that mistrust is sometime well-
earned, especially among newly launched REPs, in which fraud is commonplace.

This comes across as a risk, but it can also present an opportunity for a
provider to stand head and shoulders above the rest in terms of trust and
transparency. To do that with real meaning, OnPoint needed a platform that would
allow deep insight into the enrolment and customer journey, but also and the
flexibility and extensibility to allow for the integrations and workflows that
are unique to the company’s vertical.

Optimizely provides the means to deliver a modern, transparent and efficient
consumer buying experience for OnPoint’s customers. Keith confirmed that
selecting Optimizely allowed OnPoint to enter the market without delay and ready
to face the peak of market demand in Texas’s uncompromising summer months. 2022
saw the fourth hottest summer on record in the Dallas-Fort Worth area and power
usage for home cooling was correspondingly high.

Installing the platform provided order management capability that incorporated
fraud prevention, customer support, easier customer journey development and
extensibility through API integrations. These included multiple integrations
with internal and partner platforms including vendor platforms for utility data
management and customer service. The platform also integrates with OnPoint’s
centralized repository of customer data that serves as our system of record for
reporting, marketing and sales. **Immediate measurable results – fraud
prevention and customer acquisition**

Over the first week that OnPoint’s website was live on Optimizely Customized
Commerce platform, the company saw an incredible 90% fraudulent enrolment rate.
This flood was stopped at the point of entry, so none of the fraudulent
applications reached the point of actual enrolment as customers.

OnPoint was able to use this information to create a fraud prevention process
that brought fraudulent accounts close to near zero in 90 days. This is an
achievement that was unprecedented within the REP industry. It typically takes
REP companies 12 months at a minimum to achieve meaningful fraud prevention.

Optimizely has also enabled OnPoint to reduce customer acquisition cost to less
than half the expected cost to date. Optimizely’s Customized Commerce has lived
up to its name, allowing OnPoint to work faster and smarter through third party
affiliates, developing APIs that integrate with these third-party digital
enrolment journeys.**Implementing Optimizely Data Platform (ODP)**

OnPoint has implemented the first phase of the Optimizely Data Platform (ODP).
This phase set about integrating the customer data OnPoint held in Content Cloud
and Customized Commerce, allowing them start using ODP for segmentation.

This served to drive marketing automation and analysis of OnPoint’s customer
book. The resulting insights from ODP have provided vital information to
OnPoint’s customer support team, helping them to better understand what happens
in the enrolment path from the customer’s perspective. OnPoint is confident that
improved brand engagement will play a critical role in reducing
churn.**Cooperation with BlueBolt**

OnPoint set itself some stern challenges in getting to market against a tight
timeline in a market that has complex integrations and strict regulations. The
company worked alongside BlueBolt as a development partner for implementation of
Customized Commerce and Content Cloud.

Keith credits BlueBolt’s development skill set with the Optimizely platform and
in-depth ecommerce experience as a crucial component of their success in getting
to market as quickly and efficiently as they did. He added that BlueBolt will
continue to be a valued part of the team as OnPoint builds out and executes its
roadmap. **An easy implementation with multiple benefits**

As a start-up, OnPoint was fortunate in that it was unencumbered by the legacy
business processes, systems and technical debt that so many companies have to
overcome. Selecting Optimizely allowed them to leverage speedy market access at
the peak time in a difficult year. The platform provided everything the business
needed and more in terms of order management capability. This in turn enabled
the fraud prevention measures, customer support, and customer journey
development capabilities we have already mentioned.

Keith stressed that the team has found Optimizely easy to implement and
customize and very price competitive relative to other platforms in the market.
He added that the capabilities across the Optimizely product suite give digital
Business Development and marketing teams the tools they need to build a clear
digital roadmap that will empower growth.**Looking ahead**

OnPoint is a company that is forever looking ahead in a fast-moving market.
Keith commented that the business has successfully moved through what he calls
the “crawl/walk phase” of its year one digital roadmap, and that now it is ready
to start running.

The next phase of ODP development is already planned and will focus heavily on
growing the company’s B2B business. Phase Two will also include integrating
complex utility data along with billing details and marketing interactions with
Google and Meta. This step will have a significant impact on the business’s
ability to provide a truly personalized experience for customers, both in terms
of initial enrolment and customer support.

This can only make sense for customers. Since deregulation, the world of power
supply has exhibited characteristics of the wild west on both the supply and
demand side of the coin. OnPoint is leading the way in cleaner and more
transparent processes that serve to benefit all parties. Optimizely is proud to
have the opportunity to be a part of this revolution.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Products used

- Commerce Connect
- Data Platform
