# Optimizely's marketing transformation cut costs by 31% while running 200+

campaigns with Optimizely One.

#### **Operating in silos**

While they used a generic project management tool to manage their work, it was
disconnected from the actual creation and execution of their work, resulting in
a lack of visibility and efficient collaboration.

#### **Duplicated and wasted efforts**

Content lived in separate spreadsheets, documents, and drives, making it
difficult to find brand-approved assets and easily repurpose them, particularly
to Optimizely CMS.

#### **Disconnected tech stack**

Without a tool for planning, creation and collaboration, that seamlessly
connected to Optimizely CMS, data platform and experimentation tools, they were
missing a vital piece of the marketing lifecycle.

##### After acquiring Welcome, Optimizely migrated from Asana to their Content

Marketing Platform, which kickstarted their marketing transformation and became
the thread of their suite of Optimizely One products:

#### **Content Marketing Platform**

Optimizely’s migration from Asana to Optimizely Content Marketing Platform
simplified their marketing processes, and enabled them to intake,
collaboratively plan and create, and reuse content across various channels
(including their CMS).

#### **Digital Asset Management**

Using Library, Content Marketing Platform’s integrated DAM, Optimizely has been
able to make the most out of their assets, while reducing content waste and
duplication.

#### **Content Management System (PaaS and SaaS Core)**

The use of CMS12 and the introduction of SaaS Core has provided more flexibility
to Optimizely’s marketing team, allowing them to choose the implementation based
on each site’s specific need and provide an exceptional digital experience.

#### **Content Recommendations**

This enhancement enabled Optimizely to scale personalization and serve visitors
with tailored content experiences.

#### **Data Platform**

Leveraging data from their CRM enabled Optimizely to build custom audiences and
take a more sophisticated approach to personalization.

#### **Experiment Collaboration**

Bringing a deeply-integrated tool for experiment planning and collaboration into
the fold of Optimizely One enabled Optimizely's marketing team to adopt a
“culture of experimentation” and democratize the ideation and creation of
experiments.

### Efficiency

Optimizely’s marketing team was able to run 200+ campaigns across four “Big
Bets” (or top goals) and six integrated campaigns, as well as 50+ concurrent...

### Marketing cost

More collaboration, better visibility, and less duplicated efforts allowed
Optimizely to reduce their marketing spend by 31%.

### Cost per MQL

With a more streamlined approach to planning and executing campaigns and
experiments, Optimizely reduced their average cost per MQL by 50%.

Discover how Optimizely One can seamlessly integrate your entire marketing
lifecycle into one unified workflow. Learn more now.

## Challenge

Optimizely's marketing organization, not unlike many other marketing teams, was
facing operational challenges including siloed teams and channels, a top-down
decision-making culture often led by the Highest Paid Person's Opinion (HIPPO),
and the absence of a common or shared system. Their reliance on a generic
project management tool, specifically Asana, highlighted the need for a solution
purpose-built for marketers.

While work could be assigned within Asana, all of the content creation and
execution had to happen in external tools. It was commonplace for disparate
PDFs, spreadsheets and PowerPoints to be flying back and forth via Teams and
email, making it difficult to keep track of the latest version of assets. It was
also a siloed system that was disconnected from the rest of their Optimizely One
tools, and therefore, pushed efficiency to the back burner.

Optimizely recognized that these are common challenges for marketing
organizations, and at the end of 2020, acquired Welcome, an industry-leading
content marketing platform, which served as the catalyst for their complete
marketing transformation and has become the connecting thread across Optimizely
One.

## Solution

Acting as their own best use case, Optimizely's marketing team relies on
Optimizely One—their shared operating system that enables every part of the
marketing lifecycle.

They have transformed from a request-based organization with little visibility
into what's being worked on and what's coming next, to an agile team that’s
empowered to make decisions by being able to easily view marketing plans and
stay aligned with clearly-defined marketing priorities.

Their strategic approach is now built on four guiding pillars: brand, Big Bet,
integrated campaigns, and content and activities. This framework ensures that
every element of their marketing—from planning, content creation, and delivery
to personalization and experimentation—is strategically aligned within
Optimizely One.

The beauty of Optimizely One is that it makes all of this easy on our marketing
practitioners, through a single, seamless workflow.

Shafqat Islam

CMO, Optimizely

#### Simplified Collaboration with a Platform Purpose-Built for Marketers

Beginning with the foundational aspects of the marketing lifecycle: work intake,
planning, content creation, and asset storage, Content Marketing Platform (CMP)
has revolutionized Optimizely’s marketing team's efficiency and output.

Providing a comprehensive view into upcoming activities through various calendar
displays, the platform provides maximum visibility for everyone on the marketing
team (and beyond). Shared campaign workspaces consolidate all elements
associated with a campaign, from briefs and activities to analytics and related
content, streamlining collaboration and eliminating the need for disparate tools
and scattered assets.

With Tasks, content creation has become a seamless process, centralizing content
briefs and asset creation within a structured workflow. This unified approach
ensures that every team member remains synchronized throughout the content
development process.

“We now have a standardized process for how we create campaigns and the tasks
that ladder up to them,” said Michiel Dorjee, Optimizely’s director of digital
experience. “With Asana, our marketing strategy was request-based—someone would
fill out a form with a specific ask, and then we’d go off and execute in silos.
With CMP, we can actually collaborate on a piece of content (that ladders up to
an integrated campaign, which ladders up to a 'Big Bet') by bringing people into
Tasks.”

They also bolster their ideation and content creation efforts with embedded AI
functionality, including text and image generation and chatGPT, which enables
them to improve both content quality and velocity.

The finalized assets find their place in Library, CMP’s native, digital asset
management tool. Rich with AI features like AI-tagging of uploaded assets and
automated rendition generation with smart cropping, asset management is no
longer a manual, time-consuming operation. This not only has simplified their
processes around asset management, but also has empowered their marketing team
to effortlessly access and use the latest, brand-approved content without
navigating through multiple platforms (or asking, "Is this the most up-to-date
version?").

The total marketing transformation led by the migration from Asana to Content
Marketing Platform has had a material impact on Optimizely’s marketing team
efficiency, enabling them to run 200+ campaigns spanning four “Big Bets” and six
integrated campaigns, while spending 31% less budget than the previous year.

Because we've streamlined our processes and are able to see what everyone is
working on, we can find areas for collaboration sooner. This has helped us to
reduce duplicated efforts and work smarter, not harder.

Julia Maguire

Digital Marketing Director, Optimizely

#### Flexible Content Delivery, Honed with a Personalized Touch

Once campaigns and content are planned and created, they have to be delivered to
their final destination(s). This process has been made simple for Optimizely’s
marketing organization with the CMS12+CMP Publishing Integration that connects
the two platforms, allowing marketers to plan, create, and collaborate and push
to the CMS without ever having to leave CMP. This also means that
technical/digital marketers are no longer the blocker for getting content on the
site. This has immensely impacted Optimizely’s marketing team’s efficiency when
delivering content.

While CMS12, the latest version of Optimizely’s trusted Platform as a Service
(PaaS) CMS, continues to be the backbone of Optimizely.com, the marketing team
recently encountered a unique use case that demanded a fresh perspective – the
launch of their Brand Portal. Facing the challenge of enhancing user experience
and adopting a more contemporary design, they sought a solution that was both
modern and user-friendly. In response, they leveraged the versatility of SaaS
Core, the newest (SaaS) version of Optimizely CMS.

This strategic move allowed them to decouple the front-end, providing a modular
and flexible framework to meet the demands of their evolving requirements. The
implementation of SaaS Core enabled them to ensure simplicity, without
compromising flexibility. This decoupled structure not only aligns with more
modern development practices, but also has empowered their team to adapt swiftly
to changing needs.

Agility is key for us. We need to be able to have the flexibility that allows
our team to make quick adjustments without compromising the quality of the
digital experience. Introducing SaaS Core has allowed us to do that.

Shafqat Islam

CMO, Optimizely

Once content is live on a webpage, Optimizely’s digital team relies on Content
Recommendations and Optimizely Data Platform (ODP) to deliver a tailored (and
optimal) customer experience. The former allows for easy-to-manage content
personalization, using natural language processing to gather topics visitors are
interested in and serve them applicable recommendations for content. The latter
leverages data from their CRM, which enables them to build custom audiences in
ODP for a more intricate approach to personalization (for example, industry,
engagement, and lead scoring).

While these tools, in conjunction with the strategies Optimizely’s marketing
team has built around them, have proven exceptional ROI—a noteworthy 50%
reduction in cost per MQL—they continue to experiment with different methods and
variations for maximum impact.

**Which brings us to...**

#### Experimentation and Analysis Equals Continuous Improvement

Experimentation is in Optimizely’s blood, but there’s always room for
improvement. With their marketing transformation came a “Big Bet” specific to
experimentation, underscoring its importance in the marketing lifecycle:
“Establish a Culture of Experimentation.”

While being a more experimental marketing team hinges on changing the mindset of
marketers, it helps to have a platform that empowers team members to get
involved. To do this, Optimizely’s marketing team leverages Experimentation
Collaboration in conjunction with Feature and Web Experimentation to enable
their marketing team to submit ideas for experiments, build hypotheses,
collaborate on assets, execute through structured workflows, track experiments
and record learnings.

With Optimizely One’s suite of experimentation tools, Optimizely is able to run
50+ concurrent tests or at any given time, contributing to 25% growth in revenue
from multi-product customers and truly making experimentation a part of their
culture.

And with their learnings all in one place, Optimizely can jumpstart the
marketing lifecycle by planning and creating content and campaigns based on
real, data-driven ideas.

#### Industry

Tech

#### Products used

- Content Marketing Platform
- Data Platform
- Recommendations
- Content Management System
- Web Experimentation
- Optimizely One

### Demo video: master marketing planning with Optimizely

Content planner, calendars, approval workflows and distribution across channels,
effortless using our unified tool.
