# A new website focused on lead generation for Piab

Piab is boldly claiming a position in the digital landscape with a brand
expression that stands out among other industrial companies.

After completing extensive branding work, developing a completely new website
was the logical next step for automation company Piab. The existing website was
hampered by a growing complexity that impaired the user experience and failed to
convey the new Piab brand identity.

Piab needed a website capable of supporting its growth journey and presenting
its products and services in the best possible way. To make the website
attractive to all target groups—from existing customers to new visitors and job
seekers—it needed to be well-structured, easy to navigate and data-driven. It
should contain “calls to action” and enable conversions, as well as integration
with social media.

In collaboration with Optimizely’s partner Consid, Piab launched a comprehensive
project to build its new digital presence. One stipulation from Piab was that
the new website should offer lead-generating opportunities. This is supported by
chat functionality, login, download options, contact forms and other “calls to
action”.

## **The solution**

Optimizely’s content platform is the hub of the new website, along with InRiver
for managing product information. The search function is based on Elastic
Framework. The website is also integrated with the Piab Marketing Automation
platform (Pardot) for seamless transfer of all leads and contacts generated on
the website. There are also additional integrations with underlying systems,
including business systems and ecommerce.

The information pages were redesigned with a completely new interface, and the
content assets have been repackaged in a new concept on the new website. In the
first phase, the ecommerce functionality remained on the old website, while the
entire product range with their associated information was presented on both the
old and the new website.

The Piab brand was front and center in the development project. New
functionality was added to UX templates, with the Piab brand identity
underpinning the design. The new website stands out in the industry, and the
goals for improved experience and user-friendliness have been met.

The central functions of the website are built around the Piab portfolio, with
different types of products and configurable services. Examples of new
functionality that makes things easier for the user include CAD center, “Help me
choose”, and an interactive map where visitors can easily search among the Piab
offices and merchandisers.

## **The result**

The new Piab website was first launched as a public beta, which is usually
recommended in projects with large, complex websites with a lot of logic and
dependencies. This made it possible to get more of the Piab stakeholders
onboard—customers, partners and employees.

As a second step, Piab is planning to remodel its merchandiser portal My Piab,
in line with the new-look website. Ecommerce will also be transferred to the
same environment as the new website.

We have a hypermodern website built on Optimizely and InRiver. We’re now well
prepared and adaptable ahead of Piab’s future growth.

Anette Lantz

Digital Experience Manager, Piab

## **About Piab**

Piab is a Swedish company that has been evolving automation through progressive
gripping, lifting and moving solutions since 1951. The company believes in an
automated world where no resources are wasted and no people are injured. With
annual sales of around 1.5 BSEK, 650 employees and a global presence in more
than 100 countries, Piab helps customers improve their business. Since 2018,
Piab has been owned by Patricia Industries, part of Investor AB.

Company size: 650

Industry: Industrial Automation / Manufacturing

Region: Nordic

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

https://www.piab.com/

## In collaboration with:

Consid AB

Consid is one of Optimizely's fastest growing and most successful digital full-
service partners.
