# Young Specialties drives online adoption with B2B Commerce Cloud

## Transforming to digital to support evolving needs of buyers

Young Specialties was founded in 1986 by a hygienist who saw the challenges that
her orthodontic patients had maintaining good hygiene. She could not find a
fitting solution for her patients, so she created one. Thirty years later, her
design remains one of the market-leading dual-head toothbrushes.

Young Specialties has expanded their offering to include orthodontic supplies,
practice-branded personalized toothbrushes and thousands of other products that
help orthodontists, pediatric dentists and general practitioners improve the
patient experience, bolster their marketing efforts and support at-home care for
patients.

Like other B2B industries, there is consolidation and acquisition happening
within Young Specialties’s customer base. There are somewhere around 130,000
dental offices, but large organizations are starting to acquire them.
Professional buyers from large organizations generally don’t want to deal with
rep phone calls and would prefer web-based solutions.

Recognizing the changing nature of the industry and the evolving needs of their
buyers, Young Specialties ventured on a journey of digital transformation. They
needed to give practitioners simpler ways to buy online. The journey started
with a legacy eCommerce system that Young Specialties eventually outgrew.

We now have a scalable eCommerce solution that will allow us to grow and expand
in the future whether that be via the creation of new eCommerce storefronts or
simply the addition of new products to our existing website

Scott Leece

VP Business Process Optimization, Plak Smacker

## From turnkey to best-in-class

Young Specialties’s initial eCommerce system was not easy to manage, which held
them back from making changes to better serve their customers. They were not
able to manage it internally. Every change required relying an external
consultant, which was not ideal for their growing business.

Making matters more difficult, the original platform wasn’t integrated with
Young Specialties’s ERP. Siloed systems meant misaligned pricing and time
consuming, manual order entry.

One of Young Specialties’s most popular categories of products is their
customizable branded toothbrushes. Selling this product required numerous
touchpoints from employees in sales, customer service and operations in order to
complete orders, which was a less than ideal situation.

After identifying pain points across their legacy eCommerce system, Young
Specialties was ready to make an investment in a more sophisticated solution. As
a supplier of numerous B2B products, they needed a solution that understood
their complex business and seamlessly integrated with their ERP.

Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud provided Young Specialties the ability to:

- Integrate with their ERP
- Eliminate manual order entry
- Eliminate product, inventory and price mismatch between the ERP and eCommerce
- Leverage an online product configurator, creating a user-friendly product customization experience
- Automate the personalization process
- Easily and cost-effectively manage the eCommerce system from the Admin Console

## Driving adoption and scaling for growth

After launching Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud, Young Specialties’s team and
buyers were better enabled to do their jobs. Today, the team can easily make
changes to the platform and buyers are satisfied with online purchasing options.
Young Specialties’s goal is to double their revenue online. Young Specialties is
working to make the website more integrated into their sales and lead generation
process.

Since Young Specialties drives growth via acquisition, the eCommerce solution
had to be flexible enough to accommodate growth. With Optimizely B2B Commerce
Cloud, Young Specialties is positioned for the future.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

http://www.plaksmacker.com/
