# PostNord creates a customer-centric experience and increases website uptime

with Optimizely

## At a glance

- Improved sites uptime
- Enhanced overall customer satisfaction
- 7 sites hosted on Optimizely

## **PostNord’s important role in powering the Nordic community**

In June 2009, Danish Post Danmark A/S and Swedish Posten AB merged to form
PostNord AB, a postal services provider operating primarily in the Nordic
region.

Despite the relatively recent merger, PostNord’s history dates to the 17th
century. From letters to packages, PostNord delivers items in all sizes to, from
and within the Nordic countries.Its customer groups range from individuals to
small, medium, and large enterprises, stamp resellers to PostNord agents.

Although mail services are declining globally, PostNord remains integral in
moving the Nordic society forward. Festive seasons are the busiest times of the
year for PostNord. Not only is there a spike in package delivery, but PostNord
also experiences an increase in demand and site traffic from customers tracking
parcels and purchasing its world-renowned stamps.

## **Legacy systems and technical backlog cause customer dissatisfaction**

PostNord had been experiencing issues with its online shop built on a legacy
system of 20 odd years. PostNord’s various websites were constantly down from
DDoS attacks prior to moving to Optimizely while customer expectations were also
changing.

Due to the way PostNord’s sites were hosted previously, DDoS attacks on one
could affect all its sites, causing downtime across.When PostNord’s sites face
downtime, customer service receives a spike in calls from dissatisfied users.
Despite mail services declining globally, PostNord’s users are still heavily
reliant on functions including track-and-trace, parcel pricing, and timeline
estimations.

James Robinson, Product Owner at PostNord, shared that the shop was also not
responsive and becoming increasingly harder to maintain.

Robinson also shared that improvement efforts were hampered by siloed internal
teams that did not have visibility across different functions. The PostNord team
knew that starting on a clean slate would give PostNord the best chance at
catching up to its technical debt.

## **Overhauling PostNord’s digital solution for a customer-centric experience**

PostNord identified Epinova as its Optimizely implementation partner in October 2020. After a thorough analysis of PostNord, Epinova recommended Optimizely
Commerce for PostNord’s situation. The PostNord team agreed as Optimizely is a
renowned platform amongst developers, ensuring longevity in its marketing tech
stack.

Epinova wasted no time helping PostNord migrate to Optimizely Content Management
System (CMS) and later, with PostNord’s migration to Optimizely Customized
Commerce.

Secure sites helped PostNord tackle downtime issues and DDoS attacks, making its
sites always on for users.

The PostNord team finds the suspicious traffic alerts from Optimizely highly
valuable as it acts as the first line of defense in maintaining a secure
browsing experience for PostNord users.

Moving to a CMS hosted on Microsoft Azure’s cloud computing platform has also
changed the way that PostNord work internally. Previously, PostNord’s large
cross-functional teams found it difficult to resolve issues quickly both whilst
working with an on-premises solution and with its previous cloud platform
provider.

Now, with the Optimizely’s cloud-based solution integrated with PostNord’s tech
stack and digital services supported by Amazon Web Services, PostNord have a
clear deployment pipeline from development all the way to production, allowing
them to deploy changes and updates faster than previously possible.

With Optimizely CMS, PostNord uses Recommendations and **Targeting** to create
visitor groups, delivering the most relevant experiences to its widely different
customers. The PostNord team complements this with personalized landing pages
using Optimizely’s intuitive **Authoring & Layout**.

This resulted in PostNord providing a more customer-centric experience based on
a user’s profile, something it could not execute before Optimizely. From one
URL, PostNord can customize its landing page and account login page for the
optimum buying experience.

To cater to its plethora of customers from different countries, PostNord
leverage Optimizely to make its websites available in various languages
including Danish, English, Finnish, German, Norwegian and Swedish.

Regarding PostNord and Epinova’s partnership, Robinson shared that Epinova’s
scalable team has been critical in helping PostNord manage the backlog.

When an unexpected request is included in the pipeline, Epinova always comes
through in the clutch to ensure timelines are on track.

We've been on quite a transformational journey from being hosted on-premises to
Optimizely’s cloud-hosted CMS and more recently, Customized Commerce to include
our stamp shop. We’re now able to deploy faster and reduce unwanted incidents
with Optimizely raising alerts when suspicious activity happens. The team can
then work out if the traffic is legitimate and if it’s not, we can block the IP
address.

James Robinson

Product Owner, PostNord

## **PostNord delivers on customer satisfaction**

PostNord’s digital transformation was guided by one goal – to improve site
uptime exponentially.

With Optimizely’s cloud hosting on Microsoft Azure, PostNord’s users can track
their parcels from a secure site anytime, anywhere. This has increased customer
satisfaction and decreased customer service calls, as 90% of PostNord’s site
traffic is related to parcel tracking activities.

The PostNord team successfully freed up internal resources dedicated to handle
DDoS attacks, saving costs and time.This has improved the work efficiency for
PostNord developers.

One of PostNord’s most notable wins was its stamp shop relaunch on Optimizely
Customized Commerce in October 2022, where the company received and handled
10,000 items ordered on the first day.

## **PostNord’s relentless pursuit for better customer experience**

Robinson shared that PostNord is looking towards experimentation in its
continuous efforts to improve customer experience and lead generation.

Ideally, PostNord hopes to encourage private customers to purchase directly from
its shop. The team hopes to leverage more digital touchpoints to convert these
customers and improve top-of-mind recall.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Products used

- Content Management System
- Commerce Connect

#### Customer's website

https://www.postnord.com/

## In collaboration with:

Epinova X Optimizely

At Epinova we specialize in creating websites, e-commerce, intranets and portals
with the Optimizely platform.
