## \*\*Elevating E-Gifting: How Prezzee utilised Optimizely's Web Experimentation

platform to boost sign up rate by 580%\*\*

Learn how Prezzee utilised Optimizely's Web Experimentation platform to increase
sign up rates, transform website optimization and improve feature optimization

## At a glance

- Prezzee struggled with operational hurdles in marketing experimentation, lacking technical support. The decision to adopt Optimizely was driven by the need for a tool capable of accommodating ambitious feature-driven experiments while ensuring a secure and controlled environment.
- Increased customers adding their received gift card to the Prezzee Wallet from 11% to 50%. Through further optimisations, this has risen to 75% of customers signing up in gift card flow – a significant increase
- Partnering with The Lumery for onboarding, Prezzee used Optimizely to transform website optimization and feature implementation. Leveraging key features like Visual Editor and Stats Engine, Prezzee achieved a data-driven and agile approach, enhancing user experience and platform performance.

## **Background**

Prezzee is a dynamic and innovative digital gifting platform that has reshaped
the way people give and receive gifts in the modern era. Launched in 2014, this
Australian-based company has harnessed the power of technology to provide an
extensive array of digital gift cards from a diverse range of popular brands and
retailers. Prezzee currently operates in Australia, New Zealand, United Kingdom
and the United States.

Prezzee's user-friendly mobile app and website have redefined the art of gift-
giving, offering unparalleled convenience and speed. With a commitment to
simplicity and sustainability, Prezzee has become a go-to solution for
individuals and businesses seeking a hassle-free and eco-friendly way to share
their sentiments on various occasions. In this digital age, Prezzee's evolution
highlights the transformative potential of technology in revolutionizing
traditional practices and enhancing the overall gift-giving experience.

Prezzee’s journey with Optimizely’s Web Experimentation platform, supported by
partner The Lumery, began in April 2022, with implementation occuring in May 2022.**Problem**

Prezzee faced significant challenges before embracing Optimizely for
experimentation. As Andrew Harman (Senior Product Manager at Prezzee) explained,
Prezzee had already initially embarked on the journey of optimizing conversion
rates in their marketing efforts, focusing on minor enhancements. However, they
soon realized that their aspirations extended beyond incremental changes. They
sought to validate broader and more intricate concepts, test market responses,
and evaluate customer reactions to feature-rich alterations, transcending simple
A/B testing of elements like images or headings.

In addition to their experimentation challenges, Prezzee grappled with
operational hurdles, particularly in the realm of enabling marketing to complete
experiments end to end. The Marketing team lacked the technical support
essential for safely developing, and launching experiments. Understanding the
potential disruptions and risks of unguided marketing experimentation, they
recognized the imperative of establishing a robust delivery model supported by
technical teams.

Ultimately, Prezzee's decision to embrace Optimizely stemmed from their desire
to tackle complex experimentation challenges head-on. They needed a tool capable
of accommodating their ambitious feature-driven experiments while concurrently
establishing a secure and controlled environment for experimentation company-
wide. Optimizely emerged as the solution that would help Prezzee overcome these
obstacles and achieve their broader experimentation objectives.**Benefits &
Solution**

Prezzee's journey with Optimizely was complemented by their partnership with The
Lumery, who facilitated their onboarding process. They opted for an assisted
onboarding program as part of their sales experience, with The Lumery overseeing
the initiative. The onboarding program primarily revolved around comprehensive
training on the Optimizely system, and a focus on experimentation fundamentals
and design. Additionally, The Lumery conducted site audits, collaborating
closely with Prezzee to develop their experimentation approach and launch their
first experiment. This engagement proved to be a valuable knowledge booster,
equipping Prezzee with the expertise needed to harness the full potential of
Optimizely for their experimentation needs.

After a smooth onboarding process, the Prezzee team quickly got to work in
leveraging Optimizely’s experimentation platforms to elevate the digital
experience for its customers whilst testing and iterating on new ideas, product
launches and conversion optimisation and strategy.

Prezzee harnessed the power of Optimizely's Web Experimentation platform to
transform its approach to website optimization and feature implementation.
Before adopting Optimizely, Prezzee faced challenges in assessing the impact of
changes made to their platform. They relied on best practices, user feedback,
and some quantifiable data, but lacked certainty about the outcomes of their
updates.

With Optimizely, they gained the ability to conduct controlled experiments,
gathering precise data on how each change performed. Notably, Prezzee even
utilized Optimizely’s platform to hide certain code changes, effectively
creating a defacto control group through varying the experience using
Optimizely. This innovative approach allowed them to validate enhancements and
adapt quickly based on the results. It also addressed limitations, such as the
need to interact with backend systems or access their design system, by enabling
them to build features directly into their source code. By leveraging
Optimizely, Prezzee achieved a data-driven and agile approach to website
optimization, enhancing their user experience and overall platform performance.

The organisation now utilises key Web Experimentation features such as the
**Visual Editor** , and **Stats Engine** , which makes sure that experiments
reach statistical significance as quickly as possible. Andrew Harman detailed
that Prezzee use the Stats Engine as ‘a complete source of truth for experiment
performance’, highlighting the trust internal teams have in the data
Optimizely’s platform provides. This complete trust in Optimizely’s platform has
facilitated a shift in culture at Prezzee. Now, decisions can be validated by
clear data that senior leadership can trust and act upon.

Experimentation in general is about gaining insights and validating theories
with data, removing gut feel. Optimizely, in particular, offers a unique level
of customization and control, making it a flexible and feature-rich tool that's
easy to use

Andrew Harman

Senior Product Manager

Faced with a strategic decision to make gift card recipients mandatory to add
their cards to a digital wallet, Prezzee leveraged Optimizely to conduct a
series of experiments to find the best approach.

They explored different scenarios, including making wallet addition mandatory
and leaving it optional but with prominent nudges for sign-ups. These
experiments encompassed a range of user interface changes, prompts, and
gamification elements designed to gather insights and user feedback.

Remarkably, the experiment results showed that leaving wallet addition optional
but with strong prompts led to nearly as many sign-ups as the mandatory approach
while delivering a superior user experience. By carefully optimizing the user
journey and finding the right balance between encouraging sign-ups and
maintaining user satisfaction, Prezzee achieved impressive results.

This data-driven approach not only improved sign-up rates but also had a
profound impact on executive decision-making within the company. Armed with
concrete data and insights, the company chose to retain the optional but highly
encouraged sign-up approach, avoiding the potential backlash that could have
come with a mandatory requirement.

The business experienced substantial success as a result of this
experimentation. Monthly account creations surged, with approximately 100,000 to
150,000 new members signing up each month—a significant increase.

Initially, the experiment involved triggering an existing sign-up modal using
Optimizely, and applying minor UI changes to ensure the customer experience was
consistent to the context. A customer could close the modal to access their gift
card like before without signing in.

---

## **Conclusion**

Prezzee's future plans in the realm of experimentation and optimization are
focused on scaling their efforts and expanding their reach. As Andrew Harman
explained, the business aims to extend the scope of experimentation across more
teams or "squads" within the organization. The goal is to conduct a greater
number of experiments, which will allow them to continuously enhance their user
experience and business outcomes.

#### Product used

- Web Experimentation
