# quip increases average order conversion and improves customer life time value

with Optimizely

Smile-worthy success: learn how quip harnessed Optimizely's experimentation
tools to drive change internal culture and drive customer satisfaction

## At a glance

- 60+ experiments launched
- 40x faster to launch A/B tests with Optimizely Web than Feature Experimentation alone
- 4.7% increase in order conversion rate (for use case described below)

### **Background**

Originally founded in 2015 by two industrial designers who set out to make oral
care more simple, accessible, and enjoyable. quip is now a leading brand in the
healthcare space.

As the first to market direct-to-consumer oral care subscription service, the
New York-based company has transformed the industry. quip provides thoughtfully
designed personal oral care products and professional dental care services
through a digital platform that makes maintaining good oral care health more
simple, accessible, and enjoyable. quip's current personal care offerings
include the American Dental Association accepted (ADA seal) rechargeable and
battery powered adult and kid electric toothbrushes, smart brushes, refillable
floss pick and string, refillable mouthwash and gum as well as its newest
innovation, the rechargeable cordless water flosser. All products are designed
to drive good oral care habits, while keeping products fresh and effective with
a quarterly refill delivery service.

quip has gained a loyal following by offering modern products that encourage
users to build better oral care habits, , delivering tips and tricks to its many
customers and incentivizing them to improve their oral hygiene with its
innovative mobile app.

The app pairs with quip smart devices like, for example, a Bluetooth-enabled
toothbrush and rewards points to users for completing oral healthcare tasks like
successfully brushing teeth twice a day for two minutes each time. These points
can then be redeemed for various discounts and prizes. The company has disrupted
the oral care industry and continues to grow rapidly, expanding its product
offerings and reaching new customers across the globe.

quip's journey with Optimizely started in February 2022**Problem**

quip had utilized experimentation sporadically throughout the company’s rise to
the top of the oral healthcare industry. However, to increase testing velocity,
gain an understanding of what to test, validate ideas and regenerate an internal
culture of experimentation throughout the company, a new solution and updated
approach was needed.

Timothy P, Director of Digital Product at quip, shared that “the e-commerce
team, the marketing teams, the creative teams, the product team… we were
hamstrung by our inability to run quick tests.” Timothy P envisioned a culture
of experimentation throughout the entire organization, where all teams could
independently brainstorm, launch, and report their own tests without needing
help and support from the digital team.

The different respective teams needed a holistic testing platform that allowed
them to quickly test simple ideas and hypotheses that needed validation like
cosmetic, copy or design changes, as well as more complex hypotheses like site
navigation changes that required more engineering support.

Therefore, Optimizely’s full experimentation suite, containing both Web
Experimentation and Feature Experimentation products was selected by the quip
team to support the brand on its A/B testing journey.

Optimizely’s experimentation platform is the complete solution for A/B testing
and feature flagging. It satisfies both an engineering team that needs robust
SDKs and APIs to build complex experiments, and non-technical users to create
and view the results of their own experiments. It satisfies both ends of the
spectrum and is the complete solution in my mind

Timothy P

Director of Digital Product

**Solution**

After a smooth onboarding process, the quip team quickly got to work in
leveraging Optimizely’s experimentation platforms to elevate the digital
experience for its subscribers whilst testing and iterating on new ideas,
product launches and conversion optimization and strategy.

The velocity of experiments has dramatically increased throughout the
organization as technical and non-technical users are now empowered to run their
own experiments and validate their own ideas without directly involving the
digital team.

The organization now utilises key Web Experimentation features such as the
**Visual Editor** , and **Stats Engine** , which makes sure that experiments
reach statistical significance as quickly as possible.

Timothy detailed that the accessible and digestible dashboards ensure that it’s
easy for teams to set up custom events, simple for all teams to understand which
experiments are producing a positive impact and to be confident in the results.
The Quip team now usually have “between 3-6 tests running concurrently at any
given time” according to Timothy, highlighting the culture of experimentation
that has spread through the organization. The expectation now is that all ideas
are tested, experimented on, and validated before any further action is taken.

**Feature flags** have helped quip to gate certain features on their mobile app
to safeguard against any potential buggy releases. When releasing application
updates on mobile, the turnaround can be slower than web or desktop releases as
app updates have to be reviewed by the respective application stores. Therefore,
the team utilises feature flags to mark beta features so that, in the event of a
feature release not going as planned, they can quickly toggle it on or off,
providing both more flexibility and peace of mind.

## Integrations

Optimizely’s **Web Experimentation** platform integrates seamlessly with quip’s
backend programs and applications. The integration with Segment, quip’s Customer
Data Platform that tracks, cleans and organises customer data, allows the
product team to simply funnel all user events from Segment into Optimizely’s
platform. This allows the product team to create detailed experimentation
audiences, personalize experiences that increase conversion, and run high-
quality experiments that accelerate growth.

As Timothy P shared, “Optimizely’s Segment integration makes it super convenient
for us as we don't have to do any additional Optimizely development work for
event tracking”.

Optimizely’s **Feature Experimentation** product also syncs and integrates with
quip’s native content management system Contentful. Using an Optimizely app that
integrates with the CMS, content administrators can choose different content
variations to display to customers based on which experiment variation the user
is enrolled in. Server-side experimentation is enabled without pushing new code
per experiment, saving developers time. This integration makes testing different
copy variations smooth and harmonious whilst providing more flexibility to
quip’s content administrators.**In Depth\*\***Use Case 1\*\*

A key part of quip’s testing efforts focussed on nurturing the health of its
subscription business, by ensuring that it retains and improves its customer
life time value (CLV).

quip’s personal care products, like toothbrushes, are accompanied by
subscriptions for refillable products, like toothbrush heads. Ensuring that
customers purchase as many refillable products is important to increase a
customer’s LTV.

quip’s previous checkout process for refillable products pushed users to select
a product, checkout and provide an option for either a one-time purchase or a
recurring subscription. The quip team hypothesised that changing the Product
Detail Pages (PDP) to include a quantity selector for refills earlier in the
checkout process could have a positive impact.

Although there was a fear that adding this feature could clog the PDPs and give
customers choice overload, the quip team set up this experiment utilizing
Optimizely’s Web Experimentation. URL redirects were used to split test the
original PDP page where customers could not choose refill quantity and a new
version of the PDP page where they could choose refill quantity.

The new variant saw significantly higher conversion rate purchase units per
transaction, and subscription units per transaction for brush head refills.

### Product Display Page - Control Variation

### Product Display Page - Test Variation

## Conclusion

In the next 18 months, quip aims to continue its focus on improving customer LTV
whilst launching new and innovative products and expanding its horizons in the
oral healthcare space.

The team will continue to increase its testing velocity with Optimizely to
continue to empower more non-technical employees with easy-to-use tools to
enhance the company’s experimentation culture.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Products used

- Feature Experimentation
- Web Experimentation
