## \*\*RAKBANK transform their digital presence with Optimizely One, supercharging

efficiency, boosting website engagement by 37% and increasing leads by 12%.\*\*

RAKBANK's Group Chief Customer Officer DJ Choi details how one of the leading
banks in the United Arab Emirates revamped its website, internal digital and
content marketing operations and content supply chain with Optimizely One

# Top challenges prior to Optimizely

#### **Teams working in silos**

Without a single place to manage and execute projects and campaigns, RAKBANK was
faced with operational inefficiencies and a lack of visibility across what each
team was working on.

#### **Outdated technology**

RAKBANK was relying on a legacy CMS that they had used for over 10 years, which
needed developer help and made it difficult for marketing to update content.
They also lacked the functionality to run experiments and personalize their
website.

#### **Disconnected tech stack**

RAKBANK lacked an integrated tool to store their marketing assets for easy reuse
and was unable to seamlessly create and deliver content in a headless fashion
due to the limitations of their legacy CMS.

# Using the best of Optimizely One to drive real value

#### **Content Management Platform (CMP)**

To manage their campaigns, tasks, workflows, and assets more effectively,
RAKBANK implemented Optimizely CMP, which improved their marketing
organization’s collaboration, visibility and productivity.

> **Increased efficiency:** As a marker of true transformation in the way their
> marketing team works, they were able to reduce manual tasks by 9 hours per
> week thanks to the streamlined and user-friendly capabilities of Optimizely
> CMP.

#### **Digital Asset Management (DAM)**

RAKBANK utilizes Optimizely’s integrated DAM to organize and manage their brand-
approved marketing assets, which can now be easily discovered, reused, and
repurposed through its integration with Optimizely CMS.

> **Content Supply Chain:** Optimizely DAM is fully integrated into the upstream
> workflows (content planning and creation) and downstream workflows (delivering
> to any channel) in CMP, as well as Optimizely CMS, where assets can be pulled
> directly into webpages from the CMS interface.

#### **Content Management System (CMS)**

The bank migrated its website from HCL to Optimizely CMS, which offered faster
load times, easier content updates, and more flexibility.

> **Better website performance:** RAKBANK have seen a 12-18% decrease in load
> times and a 6% increase in page views across their website.

#### **Web Experimentation**

RAKBANK plans to use Optimizely Web Experimentation to test and optimize its
website content and campaigns and deliver personalized experiences to its
diverse and growing customer base.

> **Higher engagement and conversions:** With their improved digital experience,
> RAKBANK has seen a 37% increase in engagement time and an 8-12% increase in
> number of leads.
>
> Discover how Optimizely One can seamlessly integrate your entire marketing
> lifecycle into one unified workflow. Learn more now.

## **Introduction**

RAKBANK, also known as The National Bank of Ras Al Khaimah, is one of the oldest
and most dynamic banks in the UAE. Founded in 1976, the bank has grown to become
a leading retail and business banking provider, with over 19 branches across the
country. RAKBANK offers a wide range of personal and business banking services,
including treasury and insurance solutions.

As a customer-centric and innovative bank, RAKBANK is always looking for ways to
enhance its digital capabilities and customer experience. However, the bank
faced some challenges with its website and digital marketing operations, which
were hampering its efficiency, performance, and growth.Teams were siloed and
disconnected within marketing. The bank's marketing team had to rely on multiple
tools, documents and drives to collaborate on, store and share assets, resulting
in a lack of visibility and efficiency.

Furthermore, they were working on an outdated and slow CMS. The bank's website
was built on HCL, a legacy CMS that the bank had been using for 12 years. The
website had poor load times, limited functionality, and needed a tedious
syndication process for content updates.

To overcome these challenges, RAKBANK decided to look for a new CMS solution
that could meet its current and future needs. The bank wanted a headless CMS
that could integrate with its other platforms (such as its mobile app) and
needed a solution that could also support digital asset management, content
creation and campaign management. After evaluating different options, RAKBANK
chose Optimizely as its digital partner.

**Solution** RAKBANK partnered with Optimizely to implement CMP and DAM for its
digital and content marketing operations, and to migrate their website from HCL
to Optimizely CMS. The bank also leveraged Optimizely's local support and
ability to ensure a smooth and successful transition.**Streamlining
Collaboration and Content Operations**

Optimizely CMP is purpose-built for marketers, which enabled RAKBANK to see
immediate value by adding structure to their marketing processes without
requiring heavy maintenance or training.Using CMP, RAKBANK can easily plan,
create, and execute campaigns and content within a single platform, instead of
disparate tools, documents, and spreadsheets. Their marketing team relies on
flexible workflows to assign campaigns and their supporting tasks and to check
progress. They’re able to collaborate on content and campaigns by having all the
relevant campaign information (and content creation) happening in one place.
This streamlined approach to content creation and execution in CMP has
transformed RAKBANK’s digital and content marketing operations.

Workflows in CMP make your life easy when you must manage work within a big
marketing team. Optimizely CMP helps your team upscale their output. It’s a
highly positive experience when it comes to Optimizely

Vibhav Gaur

VP of Media & Analytics

## **Uplevelling RAKBANK’s Digital Presence with Headless Content Delivery**

Optimizely's headless CMS allows RAKBANK to create, manage, and deliver
exceptional content experiences across multiple channels, such as its website,
mobile app, and social media. Migrating to Optimizely CMS also supplied faster
load times (18% decrease in load time), easier content updates and more
flexibility to choose the best implementation for each of their sites.

To further improve the visitor experience on their website, RAKBANK also
implemented the Search and Navigation add-on to Optimizely CMS. Using natural
language processing, the feature understands the topics that visitors are
interested in and provides them with relevant content recommendations. After
implementation, RAKBANK experienced a 6% increase in page views, a 37% increase
in engagement time and an 8-12% increase in leads.Using Optimizely CMP and CMS
together means that RAKBANK can use the publishing integration that connects the
two platforms. This enables their marketers to plan, create and publish content
to the CMS (via an embedded CMS editor), without ever having to leave the CMP.
This streamlined process empowers RAKBANK’s marketing team to make content
updates and get content to market faster by removing the dependency on technical
teams and lengthy syndication wait times, ultimately reducing 9 hours per week
of manual work.

I think it's the Rolls Royce of the CMS and CMP domain, the world’s top-class
solution. It helps reduce your go-to market time drastically, which is critical
when it comes to the banking and financial sectors. Making changes to our
website has been seamless. Highly effective.

Vibhav Gaur

VP of Media & Analytics

## **Using Integrated Asset Management to Get More Out of Their Content**

An essential part of the content process, Optimizely’s integrated digital asset
management (DAM) allows RAKBANK’s marketing team to store, organize, and manage
their brand-approved assets in a central location. DAM also enables RAKBANK to
seamlessly reuse and repurpose their assets for different campaigns and
channels, saving them time and resources.

With native capabilities like asset renditions featuring smart focal points and
image editing, RAKBANK can take a main file from their creative agency and make
minor tweaks right within DAM, significantly reducing the time it takes to
finish assets.

With the goal of building a more connected tech stack, RAKBANK uses the
integration between Optimizely DAM and Optimizely CMS to create and deliver
engaging content for their website and other platforms. Optimizely DAM is fully
integrated into the upstream workflows (content planning and creation) and
downstream workflows (delivering to any channel) in CMP, as well as Optimizely
CMS, where assets can be pulled directly into webpages from the CMS interface.
This seamless integration enables RAKBANK to easily access and insert their
assets into their webpages and get the most out of their content.**Next Steps**

RAKBANK are not stopping their marketing transformation here. The bank has
ambitious plans to expand its use of Optimizely products and features to
continue improving upon their digital experience, such as:

- **Web Experimentation:** RAKBANK plans to use Optimizely Web Experimentation to test and optimize its website content and campaigns and deliver personalized experiences to its diverse and growing customer base. They already have a list of hypotheses and experiments planned, such as changing images, fonts, colors, languages, CTAs, lead forms, and QR codes.
- **Integrations:** RAKBANK plans to explore the integrations that Optimizely CMS and CMP offer with other solutions, such as heat mapping tools, Google Analytics, Google Drive, their CRM and other data platforms. These integrations will help the bank to gain more insights and enhance personalization.
- **AI:** They plan to take advantage of CMP’s innovative AI capabilities, including text and image generation, to help scale their content production efforts across various channels.

#### Industry

Financial services

#### Products used

- Content Management System
- Content Marketing Platform
- Optimizely One
- Web Experimentation
- Digital Asset Management
