# Experimentation helps RB hit the spot with its Durex customers

## Experimentation helps RB hit the spot with its Durex customers

Reckitt Benckiser (RB) is a British, multinational consumer goods company,
producing health, hygiene and home products. It is made up of a growing
community of 40,000+ diverse, talented entrepreneurs – all driven to make the
world a happier, healthier place. They draw on each other’s skills, working
together, to help make people feel better. Through research and development, RB
makes better products that empower everyone to take their health into their own
hands and homes. The company’s power brands, such as Nurofen, Strepsils and
Durex are sold in 180 countries. The organization uses Optimizely Web
Experimentation across its UK Durex sites, as a part of the company’s global
commitment to experimentation.

## Using experimentation to understand audience preference

RB’s goal in the UK was to increase the number of sales across the full range of
Durex products on their online portals. Headed up by Amy Vetter, RB’s European
Consumer Experience Manager, Direct To Consumer, the team first ran surveys to
establish customer pain points and identify areas for testing. The team also
took inspiration from what other successful brands were doing, and if they saw
something they liked the look of, it was flagged and became another area for
experimentation. Optimizely’s functionality facilitated these tests by allowing
the team to run several versions of a page or customer journey across multiple
regions at once. They could then test and measure responses before committing to
long term changes. This proved particularly useful, as some of the strategies
that they thought might work, actually proved a miss with Durex customers in the
UK, and they were able to shift focus accordingly.

“Optimizely is one of the easiest tools to pick up and learn. Within two days I
was up and running and had the first test going.”

Amy Vetter

European Consumer Experience Manager, Direct To Consumer, Europe, Reckitt
Benckiser Durex

## All that glitters is not gold

An example of this came when the team decided to test out whether they would get
better traction using a younger, Kylie Jenner (Kylie Cosmetics) style navigation
technique, which would showcase Durex’s best sellers or favourites. The
implementation of this actually saw a 6% decrease in revenue, leading the team
to realize Durex customers preferred to shop by category, rather than by
perceived best sellers or favourites. Another test they tried was a burger menu
on desktop, similar to Kylie Skin, which actually saw a 7% decrease in revenue
over a 2 week period. Being able to test ideas like this, and quickly change the
layout or design if it’s not resonating with consumers, is one of the benefits
of experimentation and learning from the failures is arguably as valuable as the
tests that do work out.

Equally, when the tests have gone well, the results have proved fruitful. For
instance, it was realized that the messages put out on the Durex site needed to
be short and sweet, no matter the offer. There was a whopping 32% increase in
product page visits and 6% increase in revenue, in just one month, when using
shorter lines rather than longer brand messaging headlines. The team also found
that having the offers page a different color to the navigation, increased click
throughs by 11% over a 10 day period.

## Amazon approach not hitting the spot for customers

Having the ability to test like this also helps to categorically prove or
disprove assumptions. Just because you might find something easy, engaging or
appealing, doesn’t nessasarily mean others will. This has been true for the
latest test that the team has run on the Durex site, which saw them adopt an
Amazon style, bundle package option. The idea being that if a customer had
selected one Durex product, that they would usually have to pay an additional
£4.99 postage fee on, a bundle option of other relevant products would be
suggested to them. This would then take them over the threshold for free
delivery, whilst also suggesting other products related to their initial
purchase. However, 1% fewer people actually added anything to their cart when
faced with this bundle option and the average order value was 1% lower, with
total revenue down 6%.

It is clear that the bundles are not working as it stands, so the next phase in
the testing process will see the bundles being changed out for different
products, to see if that increases interest. Being able to test and learn like
this, has helped the team to understand the Durex customers better, providing
the team with the ability to react quickly to what works well and change
anything that doesn’t hit the spot.

## Sharing the benefits of experimentation

Holding on to successes and learnings that these tests had produced, wouldn’t
improve the RB business overall, so the team wanted to ensure that the rest of
the business could benefit from their findings. Leading the charge, Amy started
producing weekly presentations of their learnings, sending them out across the
wider business. Other departments saw the results of the tests the team had been
running, and decided to initiate their own experiments in response.

These successes and learnings gave the Durex team widespread visibility, and
approval from senior management at RB, which has resulted in them pushing the
experimentation envelope even further. To elevate RB’s experimentation program
to the next level, they are now looking at multi-variant testing and building
out the geographies they are operating in.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Web Experimentation
