# re:member creates a meaningful experience for 2M customers

Offering financial solutions in the Scandinavian market, and provide an
intuitive digital experience for all customers

re:member offers lending products such as credit cards, consumer loans and
refinancing. EnterCard Group AB is behind the brand re:member. EnterCard Group
AB is one of Scandinavia's leading credit market companies with nearly 2 million
customers in three markets: Norway, Sweden and Denmark. EnterCard is a joint
venture between Swedbank and Barclays Principal Investments Limited. Their aim:
To make their customer’s everyday lives easier by offering smart and responsible
payments and financial solutions.

Providing financial products to a B2C channel, re:member approach banking with a
personalized strategy that truly benefits consumer lifestyles. One of the lures
of their credit card is, as a customer, you get access to re:member reward,
which is a benefit & loyalty program where you get online discounts on various
shops. Customers log in through the website, and shop as you usually do online,
you receive a discount on your next invoice.

To actively be a part of their customers everyday activities, it was important
they adopted a mobile-first approach as a digital gateway for online shopping.
One of the main reasons they selected Optimizely at first, was to ensure they
had responsive websites for each of their regions. However, Optimizely also
offered an intuitive mobile experience. When customers use their mobile phone to
commence shopping, re:member wanted to create a seamless experience, just like
on desktop. No matter how customers access re:member’s digital offering, they
strive to ensure customers have the same possibilities regardless of device
type.

Employing a pragmatic customer approach, re:member proactively analyse where
customers derive from and what content visitors engage with most. They are
continuously optimizing their digital offering to make sure visitors land in the
right place and interact with relevant content.

The digital engagement platform identifies visitors based on what product they
have, how they landed on the page (for example via an ad) and previous
interactions. If a customer is after a consumer loan, they are presented the
benefits of that specific product, and when they get back to the front page they
are reminded what the benefits are and how they can use them.

‘’We analyze the sources and the content you see and use for an optimized
experience on the website. That's the vision, to make it so that every visitor
is served relevant content based on their needs and their behavior.''Steffen
Quistgaard, Web Specialist re:member, EnterCard

In regards to the UI and user friendliness, I've used several CMS, and I'd say
from my perspective, Optimizely is not difficult to use. I think it's logical. I
think the overall experience for me, using it for almost five years now, I'd say
it has only gotten better with time. And there's definitely no hurdles for us in
using it everyday.

Steffen Quistgaard

Web Specialist, re: member

Unique to other financial lenders is re:member’s willingness to be as
transparent and as helpful as possible to ensure customers receive the best
suited product for their needs. Optimizely Content Cloud is purpose-built for
this application. Out-of-box personalization means more relevant information for
visitors. With the websites primarily focused on prospects and new visitors,
re:member have an app, which is focused on existing customers.

When it comes to measuring, re:member can highlight specific product features
for customers and compare the performance of non-personalized verses
personalized outcomes to see the number of visitors who opted to engage. This is
extremely useful in the financial world where there are a lot of terms, phrases
and wording difficult for typical consumers to understand. re:member use
language that is simple and open, making it easy to understand and to find all
the information a customer would need.

For the digital web team, situated across Scandinavia, it is essential they have
a reliable CMS to create the digital experiences millions depend on for their
everyday activities. re:member note Optimizely’s user-friendliness and ease-of-
use.

#### Industry

Financial services

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

https://www.remember.no/

## In collaboration with:

Knowit AB

Knowit provides knowledge in at the area of communication, commerce and
collaboration on the web, mobile and new media.
