# Reyes Beverages Group increases sales by 22%

North America's largest beer distributor refresh their digital brewery on
Optimizely

## At a glance

- 18% increase in users
- 70,000 retail accounts
- 22% Increase in shopping cart

## Leaders in beer distribution

Reyes Beverage Group (RBG) provide thousands of customer organizations
unfettered access to the freshest, coolest beer choices – making the arduous
process of tank-to-table logistics nice and fluid.

Thanks to their focus on continuously seeking to add value to the brewing
industry’s supply chain, RBG are constantly looking for a competitive advantage
in an industry soaked with competitors.

Operating out of 23 warehouses across the United States, they provide the
largest assortment of beers including household brands such as Heineken, Corona
Extra and Coors Light.

## Making it easier for wholesale customers

In order to remain top of their game, Reyes had a view to modernize their
customer ordering platform. This consisted of making it easier for wholesale
customers to get what they need with less hassle, more convenience, and
increased self-sufficiency. While an existing system was in place, it was
clunky, and adoption rates were low. Customers tended to go around the portal
and call on Account Managers directly.

After evaluating other platforms, Reyes Beverages Group chose Optimizely to
support their ambitions; a faster, easier, and more efficient ordering process
for their customers - handing account managers more time to work their magic and
less time administrating orders. The Optimizely Digital Experience Platform
enables Reyes the ability to scale and support the marketing team through its
ease of use.

RBG teamed with Optimizely Premium Partner Verndale, working seamlessly to
transform the existing, aging installation. The view was an updated, more
refreshing beerline.com system, providing customers with an advanced user
experience, and the most efficient means to create orders and monitor their
accounts online.

To top it all off, Verndale integrated RBG’s back office systems directly into
the new system to enable more control over pricing and inventory, providing
360-degree coverage on the backend ordering process.

The powerful capabilities of the Optimizely Digital Experience Platform have
allowed Reyes customer network, of over 70,000 retail accounts, access to an
advance user experience, with the most efficient means to create orders and
monitor their accounts.

Deploying Optimizely Commerce has led to an 18% increase in usership for the
Chicago based beverages distributor. This is complemented by a 28% increase in
product pages views, indicating stronger than previous engagement and
interaction.

Shopping cart pageviews increased by 22% showing a trend towards visitors moving
through the cart to convert at an improved rate. By deploying the Optimizely
Digital Experiencej Platform, Reyes have encountered a 7% increase in internal
site search usage.

Reyes and Verndale worked in a co-development fashion to deliver an elevated
design and user experience. The updated experience allows customers to find what
they need quicker and the ability to order fast. Reyes Beverage Group now have a
solid, scalable platform that accommodates aggressive growth and supports the
seamless addition of properties into the platform.

With its updated digital infrastructure, Reyes will continue personalizing the
buying experience for customers. Using more complex personalization combined
with Optimizely’s artificial intelligence will allow for real-time upselling and
cross-selling opportunities. All this while trying to stay ahead of customer’s
needs and presenting them with their orders before they know what they need is
the long-term vision.

Another area of future focus will be to expand its multilingual offering –
adding an even more personalized experience to customers as they expand their
territories. Live chat and voice enablement are also in Reyes’ future plans to
enhance the customer experience.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Content Management System

## In collaboration with:

Verndale

Verndale is a digital experience agency and Optimizely Premier Platinum partner
that designs and builds web, mobile, and commerce experiences.
