# Road Scholar leverages Optimizely One to revitalise its online digital

presence

Learn how Road Scholar, a non-profit educational travel organization for adults,
leveraged Optimizely One to deliver personalized and engaging digital
experiences for its participants, increasing conversion rates by 30%, reducing
page load speeds by 38% and dramatically increasing internal visibility,
collaboration, and workflow management.

# Top challenges prior to Optimizely

#### **Low conversion rates**

Despite having a loyal customer base and a unique value proposition, Road
Scholar faced low conversion rates on its website, especially among new visitors
who were not familiar with the brand or the concept of educational travel.

#### **Manual and inefficient processes**

Road Scholar relied on manual processes and third-party tools to create and
update content on its website, which resulted in delays, errors, and
inconsistencies. The organization also lacked the ability to run experiments and
personalize its website based on user behavior and preferences.

#### **Limited data and insights**

Road Scholar had limited access to data and insights on its website performance
and customer behavior, which made it difficult to measure the impact of its
content and marketing efforts and optimize its digital strategy

# Using the best of Optimizely One to drive real value

#### **Content Marketing Platform (CMP)**

To streamline its content creation, management processes and content supply
chain, Road Scholar implemented Optimizely CMP, which enabled them to plan,
collaborate, and execute campaigns and content within a single integrated
platform.

#### **Content Management System (CMS)**

To improve its website speed, functionality, and flexibility, Road Scholar
migrated its website from its previous content management platform to
Optimizely’s CMS, which offered faster load times, easier content updates, and
more options to deliver content.

#### **Web Experimentation**

Road Scholar switched from their previous testing platform to Optimizely Web
Experimentation, which enabled them to A/B test and optimize their website
content and campaigns, run multivariate/multi-armed bandit tests, measure the
impact of their changes on key metrics and deliver personalized experiences to
their diverse and growing audience.

#### **Optimizely Data Platform (ODP)**

To gain more insights and visibility into its website performance and customer
behavior, Road Scholar utilized Optimizely Data Platform, which provided them
with real-time data and analytics on their experiments, campaigns, and content.

#### **Recommendations**

To personalize its website and offer relevant and engaging content to its
customers, Road Scholar leveraged Optimizely Recommendations, which uses machine
learning to provide tailored suggestions based on user behavior and preferences.

#### **Experimentation Collaboration**

The experimentation collaboration feature has played a pivotal role in Road
Scholar’s testing process, facilitating effective communication and coordination
among team members across different geographical locations and teams. This
feature enabled Road Scholar to implement a streamlined workflow from test idea
submissions to execution and reporting.

# Key results since using Optimizely

> **Increased efficiency:** Road Scholar has dramatically reduced its content
> creation and deployment time thanks to the user-friendly and streamlined
> capabilities of Optimizely CMP and CMS.
> **Improved website performance:** Road Scholar improved its website page load
> speed by 38%, which has improved the user experience and reduced bounce rates
> **Higher conversion rates and revenue:** Road Scholar increased its conversion
> rates by 30% from March 2023 to March 2024 (including mobile) as a result of
> its experiments and personalization efforts using Optimizely Web
> Experimentation and Recommendations

## **Background**

Founded in 1975, Road Scholar offers thousands of educational travel programs
across the United States and in nearly 100 countries across the globe, covering
topics such as history, culture, nature, music, art, and more. Road Scholar
serves nearly 100,000 participants each year, who are mostly adults aged 55 and
older.

Road Scholar encountered several critical challenges with their existing CMS
platform. The outdated system significantly lacked the modern look and feel
needed to attract and retain users, and making any changes to the website was a
complex process that necessitated extensive developer involvement. This lack of
an active CMS meant that content creators could not independently update content
or create new pages, resulting in inefficiency and slowed responsiveness to
evolving needs.

Additionally, the system lacked the flexibility and customizability required to
grow with the organization. It was not scalable, posing a barrier to future
development and adaptation. The burden of maintaining security updates and other
necessary updates internally further strained Road Scholar's resources.

Moreover, Road Scholar's project management and content approval processes were
cumbersome. They used separate systems for task tracking and approvals, which
resulted in inefficiencies and redundant efforts. The marketing team had to
manage editing and proofing through disparate PDFs, leading to a fragmented and
time-consuming approval process.

In their direct marketing efforts, including extensive catalog and print
marketing, Road Scholar heavily relied on testing to understand customer
preferences. However, their existing web experimentation platform, fell short in
providing the robustness needed to accelerate testing across various pages and
support complex, simultaneous tests. This limitation hindered their ability to
effectively leverage data-driven insights to optimize their marketing
strategies.

Facing these multifaceted challenges, Road Scholar realized the need for a
comprehensive and integrated solution that could streamline their content
management, enhance workflow efficiency, and provide a robust platform for web
experimentation. This need for an adaptable, scalable, and integrated digital
experience platform led them to choose Optimizely.

**Solution**

Since adopting Optimizely's integrated suite of products, Road Scholar has
experienced transformative improvements in their digital capabilities and
operational efficiency. Leveraging the comprehensive tools provided by
Optimizely, Road Scholar has created a more dynamic and engaging digital
experience for its users.

From my perspective, Optimizely One has made things so much easier. For vendor
management, I don't have to negotiate multiple contracts or find the best
solution across different platforms. I don't have to struggle with custom coding
to integrate various platforms. Also, having systems that can communicate
seamlessly without having to learn another system really helps. I don't need to
maintain separate passwords or have training for different platforms. My team
can communicate with each other, whether it's the content team or the developer
group, all in one place

Mark Fagiano

Senior e-Commerce Director

## **Content Marketing Platform**

Optimizely's CMP has revolutionized Road Scholar's content creation and
management processes. With around 75 users on CMP, including 20-25 core content
creators and the rest involved in approvals and editing, the platform has
significantly enhanced collaboration. The shared editing capabilities and
visibility into the entire content creation process ensure everyone stays
aligned. Customizable workflows allow for streamlined task management, reducing
bottlenecks and enhancing productivity.

Digital Asset Management (DAM) integration allows Road Scholar to manage over
50,000 assets, including images and, soon, videos. The integration between CMP
and DAM allows for seamless access and deployment of these assets, improving the
speed and efficiency of content creation and publication. Extensive use of work
requests and task management features in CMP has optimized workflows,
particularly for web testing. This integration has improved the management and
execution of experiments, leading to more efficient and effective testing
processes.**Content Management System**

Optimizely's CMS has provided Road Scholar with a robust, secure, and flexible
platform for managing their digital content. The CMS's stability and security
are critical for Road Scholar, especially as they continuously upgrade their
.NET environment. The ability to move into more code-friendly environments has
allowed for a complete rebuild of their website, resulting in faster load times
and improved overall performance.

The fully supported and customizable nature of the CMS has enabled Road Scholar
to set specific usage rules and manage content more efficiently. This
customization ensures that the CMS meets their unique needs, providing a
tailored solution that enhances their digital strategy. The seamless integration
between CMP and CMS ensures a streamlined process from content creation to
publication. This integration reduces the need for multiple third-party systems
and provides a unified workflow, enhancing efficiency and reducing the total
cost of ownership.

One of the things I'm really enjoying is the Optimizely One ecosystem. Having
all of those components that speak to one another is a huge advantage for us.
Integrating CMP with Optimizely Web Experimentation has been critical. Now, we
have our workflows for testing in CMP, with a whole work request stream
functioning as our testing backlog.

Mark Fagiano

Senior e-Commerce Director

## **Web Experimentation**

Optimizely Web Experimentation has empowered Road Scholar to conduct
sophisticated A/B and multivariate testing with greater efficiency and
effectiveness. The ease of setting up tests and the streamlined workflow the
integration with CMP provides has significantly reduced friction and accelerated
the testing process, highlighted by the fact that the number of tests conducted
monthly by Road Scholar has doubled, from approximately 5 to 10.

The web experimentation platform integrates seamlessly with CMP via the
Experiment Collaboration feature, enabling a streamlined workflow from test idea
submission to execution and reporting. This integration includes a
prioritization process and visibility into the testing queue, ensuring that all
experiments are managed efficiently. Optimizely’s experimentation platform
provides more control at the code level for experiments and allows for the
creation of custom metrics for reporting. This flexibility enables Road Scholar
to tailor their testing and measurement strategies to meet specific goals and
objectives.

## **Use Case 1 – Multi-armed bandit checkout flow test**

Road Scholar has experienced significant benefits since implementing
Optimizely's Web Experimentation product, particularly in managing complex tests
within their checkout flow. One such example is the introduction of a feature
allowing customers to save their credit card payment profile and opt into
automatic payments. This was a substantial change requiring coordination across
the organization, particularly with the development team, to ensure seamless
integration and minimal disruption to the checkout process.

Given their older demographic, averaging 72 years old, Road Scholar was
concerned about potential confusion and decreased conversion rates. By utilizing
Optimizely's multi-arm bandit feature, they were able to roll out the test to a
small subset of visitors initially, mitigating risks and allowing for careful
monitoring. This level of sophistication and flexibility in experimentation
would have been unattainable with their previous platform, highlighting the
significant advantage Optimizely provides in executing complex tests and driving
informed decision-making.

_Road Scholar's Auto Payment Page_**Optimizely Data Platform and
Recommendations**

The integration of ODP and Recommendations has significantly enhanced Road
Scholar's personalization and marketing efforts. ODP integrates data from
various sources, including phone orders and demographic overlays, providing a
holistic view of each customer. This comprehensive data allows for highly
targeted and personalized marketing efforts, enhancing user engagement and
conversion rates.

The Recommendations engine promotes relevant programs based on browsing
behavior, replacing their previous system with a more robust solution. This
feature has increased flexibility and effectiveness, allowing for more tailored
content recommendations. The integration between ODP, CMS, and Web
Experimentation platforms enables the creation of unique, personalized
experiences for users. This integration allows Road Scholar to deliver targeted
content and recommendations based on a wide range of data points, significantly
enhancing the user experience.

Knowing that the systems will advance together is a big advantage. For example,
if something is developed for CMS, I know it will be integrated into CMP and Web
Experimentation, ensuring everything moves forward in the same direction without
one piece being left behind.

Mark Fagiano

Senior e-Commerce Director

## **Conclusion**

The true power of Optimizely One lies in its ability to integrate multiple
products into a single, cohesive platform. This interconnected suite ensures
that CMP, CMS, Web Experimentation, ODP, and Recommendations work seamlessly
together, providing a holistic solution that enhances every aspect of Road
Scholar's digital presence.

In the next 12-18 months, Road Scholar aims to further enhance their
experimentation capabilities with Optimizely by building out their ecosystem and
fully utilizing the platform's feature set. They plan to focus on feature
testing as the next step, aiming to migrate more order calls to the website and
expand their service portal to reduce call center volume. This strategic
approach aligns with their goal of maximizing the benefits of their partnership
with Optimizely, leveraging its evolving features to optimize their operations
and enhance customer experience.

#### Industry

Education

#### Products used

- Content Management System
- Content Marketing Platform
- Data Platform
- Digital Asset Management
- Optimizely One
- Personalization
- Recommendations
