# Royal Ahrend powers 125 years of business on Commerce Cloud

Royal Ahrend continues their partnership with Optimizely in building a new
digital customer platform.

## Digital transformation from home

Founded in 1896, Royal Ahrend is an international leader in commercial
furniture, delivering highly collaborative and sustainable office, learning,
healthcare and retail environments to end users around the world. The
organization’s furniture and space solutions are designed to encourage wellbeing
and productivity. Royal Ahrend operates in more than 20 countries, including
China, Russia and Dubai, through a portfolio of four well recognized brands:
Ahrend, Gispen, Presikhaaf and Techo.

With COVID-19 changing the way people work across the world, Ahrend noticed new
demands from its customers and needed to change its products and services
quickly to adapt to the new reality.

One of the new services Ahrend has started to offer is its ‘working from home’
product, designed for employees to pick their own home office furniture bought
by their employer. The website authorizes them to pick what they require and the
order is then sent to their home address. Ahrend provides all the communication,
production and delivery of the goods, in a user-friendly, personalized and
secure way.

The organization also worked hard to identify and design customer journeys by
creating focus groups with its own customer journeys measuring customer data
within certain digital touchpoints. This was done for both the traditional
customer journeys (B2B) as well as the new (B2C) and retail journeys.

When all of the customer journeys had been designed Ahrend needed the proper
infrastructure and platform to grow and realise the benefits of such a solution.

Being an Optimizely customer since 2012, it was an easy decision to build a new
solution with both Optimizely Content Cloud and Optimizely Commerce Cloud, these
products were integrated onto a multi-brand platform servicing all customer
groups in one. Ahrend also implemented Salesforce as its CRM and is now
integrating all its systems into one seamless customer experience. The solution
provided a new way of doing business with its customers.

A customer-specific web-shop with selected products or setups for working from
home solutions was set up , next Ahrend integrated the customer’s HR system with
a single sign-on that gives employees access to their employer’s catalogue
without any account being needed other than the one they already use. Here, the
customer can order from the selected catalogue and have the products delivered
to their homes.

Running on the Optimizely DXP platform was a huge advantage, being compliant and
secure towards its customers as part of the solution and service.

Ahrend has become a truly data-driven company over the past few years where
tracking results and using analytics has become an important part of the
business. Ahrend measures conversion, satisfaction and key touchpoints within
each customer journey and uses these numbers to provide a better service and
tweak the proposition for each customer. Ahrend also measures different ways of
providing the service which gives good indications which customer journey, or
part it, works best and then adapts to the relevant services both online and
offline.

The next steps for Ahrend are now to integrate all its systems into one seamless
customer experience, resulting in an even more data driven business and
extending this on both online and offline channels.

---

4NG - We grow digital business.

We help our clients growing their digital business based on digital experience
platform solution. With seamless integrations between systems up to an optimal
customer experience and optimizations using real-time data, we deliver full-
service solutions that cover every part of the digital landscape. All expertise
is brought together under one label: 4NG. We add value with our mix of
expertise: technology, strategy, performance, data and creativity and realize
growth ambitions for more than 120 clients, including WWF, AJAX, Ahrend, Buma
Stemra and Talpa. We do this with a team of 200 experts, across 4 premium
locations throughout the Netherlands.

Working with Optimizely since 2009, we value our partnership and help our
clients to leverage not only the digital platform, but the organization as well.
Being part of the Partner Advisory Board we work together to build an even
better product for the future. Certifying our developers and providing for an
Optimizely Most Valuable Professional (OMVP) helps us to spot opportunities
early. This way we can help our clients grow their digital business using
Optimizely, and beyond.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Products used

- Content Management System
- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

http://www.ahrend.com/
