# Royal Talens delivers a digital platform for creative customers

Royal Talens is a Dutch company located in Apeldoorn that specialises in art
materials. Dating back to 1899, the business produces and markets its own
products as well as commercialising other licensed brands such as Van Gogh,
Rembrandt and Bruynzeel. Steeped in history, they are one of the most
recognisable fine arts brands in the world.

Royal Talens wanted to develop a new digital experience for the business and a
customer portal that better reflects the nature of the organization. Royal
Talens most known for its iconic brands such as Rembrandt and Van Gogh and the
product ranges it offers. The new digital offering needed to focus not only on
the iconic brands, but also Royal Talens as a business in its own right. The
digital experience platform needed to be a valuable resource for all of its
customers from professional artists, to creative hobbyists, and even school
children.

Royal Talens required a best-in-class content management platform to deliver
bespoke content from the technical advisors at Royal Talens, pulled from their
own experiences or current trends in the art world. Royal Talens wanted this
content to spark creativity and empower its visitors because it is insightful
and an educational read.

Optimizely Content Cloud solution was chosen for the project. Its core CMS
features and functionality as well as advanced tools for personalization,
recommendations and analytics helped to create a website and customer portal
that better reflects both its retailers and customers. The elastic scalability
inclusive to the platform enables Royal Talens' brand to grow seamlessly with
their international growth.

The platform also has all the digital tools Royal Talens need, at their
disposal. They adapt content depending on the type of visitor. For example, if a
visitor starts looking at oil paint, they will need plenty more information and
data on the products offered. The higher the quality, the higher the difficulty
and so the more explanation needed. Royal Talens acknowledge this by deploying
easy-to-follow, step-by-step plans for hobbyists and semi-professional artists.

We think that e-commerce is sales driven and to have everybody on board, it must
be more service-driven. So we can get all salespeople involved in the rollout of
the portal in the sales team and also on the website.

Victor Streppel

Manager, Digital Services, Royal Talens

Optimizely helped Royal Talens achieve a versatile customer portal that better
reflects its business. The company is now able to control a steady flow of high-
quality content, deliver compelling content experiences for its customers all
while increasing collaboration with its customers that are at the heart of
everything that’s produced by the brands within Royal Talens. The internal team
have been empowered to create engaging content, within a controlled and
centralised environment that’s very much on brand and speaks to a wide range of
consumers that use Royal Talens portfolio of products. The team have also
increased productivity internally by using the tools within workflow to help
manage content projects.

Given their growing distribution network, Royal Talens have decided not to
''Bypass the retailer''.They have taken a conscious decision that they will not
sell to end consumers.

Further personalization of content is the next major priority on Royal Talens’
technology road map. It hopes to improve how it speaks directly to individuals
within the creative space with tailored content and would like to have an even
better and deeper relationship and understanding of its customers’ requirements.
The next step is to create a highly responsive site with the ability to change
content depending on the user group. Part of this journey is working with
Optimizely’s CMS powerful web capabilities to explore how CMS and content can
collaborate for the future.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

https://www.royaltalens.com/
