# RSPB sees 43% increase in overall page visits

Creating a seamless user experience with new digital eco-system, Europe's
largest wildlife conservation organization take flight on Optimizely

The RSPB is the UK’s largest nature conservation charity working to secure a
healthy environment for and to protect threatened birds and wildlife. Whilst the
RSPB was already seen by the public as the champion of birdlife, it had a
greater ambition. To champion the cause of wildlife in general.

To achieve this they needed to extend the engagement of the charity’s existing
one million-plus supporters and bring in a new generation of conservation
advocates and donors online.

They embarked on a campaign to support this vision, and Optimizely’s partner
Zone were tasked with bringing this vision to life.

## Pacing For Lift-off

RSPB’s digital strategy was clear. They needed to rebuild their online presence
and use a digital content solution to support and improve their vision of
championing wildlife as a whole. RSPB started by rebuilding their website’s
‘Give Nature a Home’ section. In anticipation of increased digital traffic
pushed by offline activities, Zone had to act fast to overhaul both this section
of the website and the membership area and homepage – transitioning RSPB to
Optimizely CMS in the process.

The website rebuild not only focussed on a striking visual design with a
scalable video to engage the audience, but an improved smooth and seamless user
experience was forefront. A simpler layout was implemented to the pages and
focused on streamlining particular user journeys – for example a fractured and
highly complex membership sign-up path was simplified into a universal four-step
process.

## Flocking Together Through Social Engagement

Global integration and localisation features were also introduced to the
website. The ‘Make a Home for Wildlife’ feature lets members of the social
community engage with other members as well as the charity itself. By sharing
changes members have made to their gardens to make a home for wildlife lets
other members see what’s being done locally that they can learn from, whilst
promoting a community spirit. Engaging its members in this way lets RSPB develop
a rapport between members and the brand, ultimately leading to increased and
long term donor support and loyalty.

## Taking Flight

The new fully mobile responsive website was built using Optimizely with a number
of features integrated to enable first time web visitors to move through to
becoming part of the social community and a donor:

Built in Optimizely, the website features extensive use of inline (WYSISYG)
editing and relies heavily on Optimizely’s drag & drop block functionality. It
has been built to be fully responsive, with ImageResizer to manage images and
HTML5 enabling the fluid-width videos

Extensive personalisation was key to the success of the project so Optimizely
Search & Navigation was implemented, working in conjunction with the Google API.

To build the social community and develop and encourage engagement, Stackla was
used for social media aggregation and moderation

In the rebuild, it was essential to bring donors online so Authorise.Net was
implemented for payment processing

## A New Formation

Since launching the site, RSPB have seen an average increase in conversion of
memberships by 23% over the datum conversion rate.The new 'Give Nature A Home in
your garden' section has had a 42% increase in page views compared with the
microsite serving that content over the same period last year . In addition,
there has been an 11% increase in page visits from the 25–34-year-old age range,
which would indicate an increase in families with younger children – RSPB's key
target demogragraphic.

In rebuilding their website, RSPB has created an engaging user experience for
their visitors, harnessing personalised content across devices, as well as
implementing a streamlined user journey, demonstrating significant business
results.

#### Industry

Charity and non-profits

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

http://www.rspb.org.uk/
