# Process makes perfect

How Safran boosted team productivity by 9% by centralizing campaign planning and
streamlining collaboration with Optimizely's Content Marketing Platform

## At a glance

- 35+ users across 6 teams fully trained and onboarded onto Optimizely's Content Marketing Platform
- 87.5% of time spent weekly in meetings now used towards productive work
- 2x the number of active campaigns with an increased focus on clearly defined goals and learning outcomes

## Accuracy, precision, and security are non-negotiable for Safran

A world leader in resilient PNT (Positioning, Navigation, Timing), Safran
(formerly known as Orolia) is the trusted partner for industry leaders and
governments around the world for critical infrastructure in national defense. It
heavily focuses on well-documented processes to deliver on its promise of
superlative quality.

The leadership wanted to bring the same process-driven reliability and
performance to their marketing org. With a global blend of 8 marketers, 10+
office sites, and 4 product lines, collaboration and communication were
paramount. However, with a number of point solutions and a mar-tech ecosystem
that wasn’t strategically integrated, the team faced a number of challenges as
it related to visibility and collaboration.

“The team as a whole had hit a roadblock. We were using multiple tools; each
solved a specific problem and had limited interaction with another. We resorted
to an excel file to track campaigns at one place and soon enough, it had 8 tabs!
It took us up to 4 hours of meetings every week to align everyone,” said Patrick
Bark, Senior Marketing Coordinator at Safran. “We were at a critical point – but
we needed a better way”

Knowing that the organization would need to streamline the way it planned,
created, distributed, governed and measured all of its content, the team set out
to implement a cutting-edge solution.

Microsoft Teams and SharePoint were sufficient for communication and storage
respectively, but we wanted to take it a step further and create a single source
of truth. Project management tools like Trello posed security risks.
Optimizely's CMP made it a breeze to involve all parties that needed to weigh in
on marketing decisions and get executive buy-in because they could see in real-
time what was happening in the team, and what would come after.

Patrick Bark

Sr. Marketing Coordinator, Safran

## Driving Visibility, Collaboration and Governance

At the end of 2020, the Safran team selected Optimizely's Content Marketing
Platform (CMP) to become a shared, centralized place for marketing planning and
collaboration.

Their objectives? Unify planning to provide visibility on a global scale,
accelerate how teams create content and execute campaigns, and ensure governance
and compliance.

**1. Centralized Planning & Global Visibility**

Unified planning allowed teams to guide organizational action from one place
with initiative-specific and intuitive workflows. From there, the global
calendar was automatically populated, providing visibility to other business
units, and enabling everyone to own their part in executing a plan.

“It’s easier to get people on the same page when everything’s organized. If
someone were to ask me what we are doing for customer experience, I’d simply
filter the results by the tags we are using. This kind of sort-by-variable
functionality is great for analyzing results from different lenses and getting
visibility into multiple product lines,” said Bark.

**2. Streamlined Execution & Seamless Collaboration **

The Content Marketing Platform's Campaigns module provided shared workspaces to
not only collaborate on the work but also to create custom templates for common
workflows to save time on future projects. It also made it easier than ever
before to connect with professionals outside the niche one works in.

“We standardized workflows across content formats. For example, we created a
template for tradeshows that allowed us to scale effectively. From budget
planning to shipping – we manage it all in the CMP“, said Bark. “This has
allowed us to identify and fill gaps in our approval processes.”

**3. Improved Governance and Verifiable Productivity**

Using Optimizely's CMP freed up time to focus on priority tasks and helped
automate routine actions. Various content optimization tools allowed subject
matter experts to collaborate in real-time and capture all feedback and action
items at one place.

_"We were spending a lot of time preparing for meetings to align everyone with
what's happening. Optimizely's Content Marketing Platform eliminated the need to
do this. As an organization that is process-heavy, our quality team greatly
appreciated the ability to track asset history and the ease of ensuring
compliance for each version."_

_Patrick Bark, Sr. Marketing Coordinator at Safran_

## The Road Ahead

Optimizely's Content Marketing Platform introduced a way to measure impact of
marketing initiatives at Safran while keeping everyone aligned. Standardizing
campaigns boosted productivity and made activations scalable.

What’s next?

“We’ve now launched a brand new website so our next steps include working on
automating and integrating the CMP into our web environment. SEO and marketing
analytics are the other side of the improvement coin for us in 2022. We are
working closely with Optimizely on UX improvements and feature requests to make
it the one-stop-shop for all our marketing needs,” said Bark.

The full business impact of the CMP will be realized in due time at Safran;
meanwhile, feedback from champions like Patrick keeps the product ever-evolving
to adapt to the needs of the modern marketer.

Want to see yourself? Get started for FREE to see the tool in action.

#### Industry

Tech

#### Product used

- Content Marketing Platform

#### Customer's website

https://www.orolia.com/

### Demo video: master marketing planning with Optimizely

Content planner, calendars, approval workflows and distribution across channels,
effortless using our unified tool.
