# Online banking with a world-class user experience

## Functionality that impacts business

How do you build editor-controlled online banking with features like bank
transfer, card management, and loan applications, while taking important
security aspects into account? With a focus on simplicity for the user and
flexibility for the editor, Santander Consumer Bank has developed online banking
that works as well on mobile phones as it does on a desktop.

Santander is an all-digital bank with a clear goal - to be the best bank for its
customers. In an ever-expanding digital banking world, it is important for
Santander to offer online banking that is easy to use, meets business objectives
and offers the flexibility needed for future development.

The company's previous online banking solution was not user-friendly, difficult
to update and not adapted for mobile and tablet. The mission for the new
solution was to attract more customers, increase customer satisfaction, and
increase flexibility for the editor.

The new web solution for Santander's online banking was built in the Episerver
Content Cloud. Optimizely premium solution partner Knowit completed the
implementation and is proud to have been able to use a CMS for more than just
publishing content. The Optimizely platform is also being used for revenue
generation, business-critical functions with very high security requirements,
along with personalized offers, management and design of conversion-oriented
content.

For the bank, choosing Optimizely has resulted in an editor-controlled bank that
is easy to adapt and develop, enabling online banking to be individualized for
every customer. Another positive aspect is that their online banking can now be
integrated with other internal systems.

"The main advantage for Santander is that it is a lot easier to develop and
manage online banking internally, and in less time," says Peter Leijon Spjuth,
Manager of Digital Channels at Santander Consumer Bank.

## Challenging development parameters

A major challenge for the project was the high level of security required. This
demanded a different cooperation between the back-end team, Optimizely team, and
Santander. Everyone involved with the project had an obligation to ensure secure
programming across every layer, strengthening collaboration thoughout the
project.

## Realizing the strategic objective

Features such as bank transfers, topping up loans, card processing, and secure
messaging between the bank and the customer were included in the new solution.
Knowit developed a new dynamic loan form for potential bank customers, where
everything is completed digitally. The customer can apply for a loan, receive
notifications, sign in using BankID or mobile BankID, and get money directly in
the account. The features were implemented with micro-interactions with helpful
engagements to enhance the user experience.

It is easier to perform banking functions and subscribe to new products, which
attracts more and more satisfied customers. The project realized our strategic
objective for the new online banking

Peter Leijon Spjuth

Manager of Digital Channels, Santander Consumer Bank

#### Industry

Financial services

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

https://santanderconsumer.dk/

## In collaboration with:

Knowit AB

Knowit provides knowledge in at the area of communication, commerce and
collaboration on the web, mobile and new media.
