Scotts Miracle-Gro creates a super-sized campaign for the Super Bowl in
partnership with Optimizely.

## Growing a digital influence

Scotts Miracle-Gro is an American multinational corporation headquartered in
Marysville, Ohio. The company is an industry-leading lawn, garden and outdoor
living products and services giant with a passion for natural and organic
products.

Having been in business for over 150 years the brand is synonymous with the
world of garden and lawn care. Scotts Miracle-Gro employs 6,500 people and has
been listed in the Forbes top 100 in recent years.

The team at Scotts Miracle-Gro wanted to collect first-party data to grow its
consumer database and made the bold move to launch its first ever Super Bowl
commercial in 2021. The aim was to specifically collect email addresses and
phone numbers to start an SMS programme over six weeks between January and
March.

We knew Optimizely would be the best partner because they have the existing
technology: All our existing customer data is stored in the Optimizely Data
Platform, and so are all the channels we need.

Amanda Scarnechia

CRM Marketing Manager, Scotts

## Sprinkling of miracles

Scotts Miracle-Gro teamed up with Optimizely to deliver the ‘Dream Lawn and
Garden Giveaway’, a digital sweepstakes for participants to win a cash prize
plus other services from the company. The Optimizely Data Platform powered the
management of campaign flows through SMS and email automation during the Super
Bowl consumer journey. Through the text-to-subscribe system the business was
able to manage product data and related digital assets while enforcing data
consistency across the digital campaign. ODP handles proper SMS opt-in
processes, ensuring that clients are always compliant to privacy laws and
regulations

The Optimizely Data Platform provided the functionality to create rich, and
informative digital experiences for consumers taking part in the sweepstakes. It
helped detail prizes, offers and reminders for those taking part, all while
capturing important first-party data ranging from the name, address of the
consumer to more open-ended results such as areas of interest.

Scotts Miracle-Gro took advantage of adding custom fields for the participants’
interests, and branched the automation flow based on their selected interest.
Customers are now getting other SMS and MMS messages, and their team is using
this channel regularly alongside email communications.

Data curation was at the very heart of the campaign objectives so ensuring the
collection of critical data before merchandising online was a major reason that
Optimizely PIM was the solution of choice.

The campaign was measured by hard and fast metrics. The objective was to collect
email addresses and phone numbers and grow the database. This was a huge success
with over 300,000 new SMS subscribers and also growing the consumer email
database by 27.3 percent. Furthermore, the business got visibility into more
insight lead data by understanding consumers trends and starting to build a
picture of each individual consumer.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Data Platform

#### Customer's website

http://www.scottsmiraclegro.com/
