# Shell fuel internal marketing process with Optimizely Content Marketing

Platform

Learn how Shell empowers its teams to be more agile, drive marketing
transformation and scale and support business demand with Optimizely

## At a glance

- 5% increase in campaigns created
- 20% increase in work requests
- Hundreds of creative projects managed globally
- 12% increase in users since January 2022

## Placing innovation at the heart of Shell

With a history that can be traced back to the 19th century, Shell was
established in 1907 and has since evolved into an international energy and
petrochemical company. Known for its presence in the oil and gas industry, Shell
also manufactures and markets chemicals as well as invests in innovative sources
of power.

Operating at a global scale in over 70 countries with over 80,000 employees,
Shell’s growing teams needed collaboration processes to drive seamless daily
operations.

Three years ago, Shell came on board with Optimizely Content Marketing Platform
(CMP). This partnership has allowed Shell to empower its teams to be more agile,
drive marketing transformation, scale and support business demand and execute an
integrated approach resulting in more alignment, efficiency and better brand
experiences.

## Shell fuel internal marketing process with Optimizely Content Marketing

Platform

Operating as a large multinational organization, with thousands of employees,
stakeholders and requests brings many challenges and complexities. Prior to
partnering with Optimizely, Shell’s marketing tasks were communicated the old-
school way via ticketing systems, spreadsheets, and emails.Not only were Shell’s
marketing stakeholders finding it difficult to collaborate, but they were also
working in silos without full visibility of their content landscape.

With strict brand compliance and processes to abide by, Shell recognized the
problem at hand.

As Shell Brands International CEO & Vice-Chairman Dean Aragon explains, “like so
many modern organizations, our success hinges on being able to maximize
visibility, enable faster turnaround times, and minimize duplication and waste.”

Shell quickly began its search for an integrated collaboration platform that
could unify various brand processes in its complex digital ecosystem, and drive
content effectiveness and efficiency without compromising on user experience.

## Unifying processes with Optimizely Content Marketing Platform

Once Optimizely CMP was identified by Shell for its industry-leading
capabilities in supporting marketing teams to plan campaigns, collaborate on
work and produce content, Shell’s teams have been maximizing the user-friendly
platform.

At Shell, the intuitive Optimizely CMP is utilized for:

- Shared and integrated planning (planning content & campaigns and managing budgets)
- Streamlining work management and creative services (handling and filtering hundreds of creative requests a month from internal employees and external agencies)
- Asset governance and brand compliance (managing tens of thousands of approvals using CMP and artificial intelligence integrations)

## Use case 1: Shared and integrated planning

A company of Shell’s size risks losing visibility when numerous campaigns are
happening concurrently.

_Figure 1: Shell's Calendar view with filter options on Optimizely Content
Marketing Platform._

With **Calendars** , Shell’s stakeholders have holistic transparency across all
regions for better insight and are empowered to facilitate longer-term, cross-
agency planning. Filters and permission settings enable employees to toggle
between a bird’s eye view and tasks to focus on.

The **Campaigns** capability has moved ideation into a shared, collaborative
workspace easily accessed by Shell’s teams instead of their previous practice of
using emails.

Not only has Optimizely CMP increased company-wide visibility on campaigns, but
it has also improved collaboration and communication between employees for
improved efficiency. Furthermore, budgets also benefit from this holistic
approach as Shell’s teams can ensure campaigns are on track.

## Use case 2: Streamlining work management and creative services

_Figure 2: Shell's Work Requests view on Optimizely Content Marketing Platform._

Hundreds of requests come in from internal employees and external partners every
month.

**Work Requests** automatically route and collectively prioritize inbound
requests from a global set of stakeholders. It serves as the single-entry point
for brand approvals and project creation. Submissions are routed accordingly,
validated and a corresponding project is created with an assigned project
manager.

The project manager further uses Optimizely CMP to handle budgeting, asset
creation, and other tasks pertaining to the campaign with flexible options to
customize processes.

Within Work Requests, there is also an intuitive UX to request work provided to
stakeholders with capacity.

Like so many modern organizations, our success hinges on being able to maximize
visibility, enable faster turnaround times, and minimize duplication and waste.

Dean Aragon

Shell Brands International CEO & Vice-Chairman

## Use case 3: Asset governance and brand compliance

_Figure 3: Shell's Tasks & Workflows view on Optimizely Content Marketing
Platform._

It goes without saying that an international organization like Shell will
require strict brand compliance to ensure unity in its marketing materials.

At one point, over 40,000 communication assets were sent for approval within
just eight months.

**Tasks & Workflows** enable Shell’s teams to monitor and govern the production
of assets with proper review and brand approvals. This capability provides Shell
with a streamlined approach for ensuring compliance across all content activity.

In addition, Shell partnered with Optimizely to integrate a machine vision
technology to screen for brand compliance. This AI-powered self-checker was
introduced to Shell’s agencies and is expected to save millions of dollars
across Shell globally.

## Shell improves overall productivity and collaboration

Shell has grown leaps and bounds, onboarding seven new teams in 2022 alone. It
has also delivered 18 new use cases since 2018 by leveraging Optimizely. One
such use case is with **Content Calendar** , currently piloted by a small group
but will likely grow in the near future.

In 2022, Shell experienced a 5% increase in the number of campaigns created on
Optimizely CMP and a 20% increase in the number of work requests. Productivity
has increased across the board.

Additionally, there has been a 12% increase in users of Shell’s Optimizely CMP
since Jan 2022.

Shell also celebrates a big win with the recent completion of its Custom Login
Page, specifically built for Shell to provide its internal and external users
with a universal brand experience. This is a testament to Optimizely’s flexible
and scalable capabilities in unlocking the digital potential of businesses.

## Automating for a swifter future

Shell is gearing up to onboard another nine teams onto its Optimizely CMP
platform soon, spelling more streamlined communication and collaboration across
the company.

With a huge focus on automation in the coming years, Shell is exploring ways to
simplify and improve processes by leveraging automation.

Shell displays a true partnership with Optimizely through innovative feature
suggestions to accelerate its automation goals.

The team also aims to further enhance its machine vision automation on
Optimizely by enabling stakeholders to leverage automation for more accurate
approvals based on well-defined brand compliance criteria. This AI automation
will also allow the team to automate the way Shell publishes content.Optimizely
and Shell continue to spur each other on the path of growth. As Shell expands
its global operations, Optimizely is there every step of the way to facilitate
user-friendly ways to execute content marketing.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Content Marketing Platform

### Demo video: master marketing planning with Optimizely

Content planner, calendars, approval workflows and distribution across channels,
effortless using our unified tool.
