# How real estate company SISAB modernized for web

Real estate company SISAB needed to modernize its website, and improve search
function, mobile adaptation and accessibility. The solution lay in a massive
overhaul based on Optimizely.

SISAB (Skolfastigheter i Stockholm AB) felt an urgent need to update and
modernize its website. The website was not mobile-friendly and the design needed
modernization. The work began with internal interviews at SISAB and surveys
among the company’s stakeholders and tenants. These preparations provided a
broader basis and a better understanding of what users wanted and needed from
the SISAB website.

The project had a tight timetable. The development work began in October 2020
and everything was ready for launch—on time—in February 2021.

## **The solution**

Consid—a Gold Partner to Optimizely and a Framework Agreement Supplier to
SISAB—was tasked with developing the new website. Feedback from the interviews
and surveys was used to create specific experience sketches for navigation,
interface, and how the user interface would attract and support the needs of the
target groups.

One of the basic measures in the project was renewing the website’s technical
base. Optimizely and the frontend framework were upgraded to meet new
functionality needs. The upgrade was also done to support the newly developed
design and satisfy the requirements to make the website responsive and mobile-
friendly.

The search functionality of the existing website necessitated the inclusion of a
completely new search function in the project. The entire website was built with
a focus on flexibility and simplicity to make things easier for the SISAB
editors.

## **The result**

The new SISAB website is welcoming, modern, and user-friendly. This time around,
it is adapted for both computers and cell phones which better meets the needs of
the target groups. Relevant content is also made available in a simple and
attractive package—easing discovery and understanding.

The new search engine makes it easier for both employees and visitors to find
the right information. The possibility of adjusting, configuring and weighting
the search engine has made a major contribution to the overall improvement. Not
only has SISAB received an easy-to-edit and intuitive web platform but the
website is now also better adapted to Swedish accessibility laws.

One success factor was that development had effective and transparent
collaboration with the support of agile methodology. The website has now
switched to administration and an agile way of working with continual
improvements.

A very successful upgrade of our website!

Sanna Brolin

System Administrator, Sisab

## **About SISAB**

SISAB (Skolfastigheter i Stockholm AB) manages and develops schools and
preschools in Stockholm, Sweden. With sustainability and smart solutions in safe
and inspiring educational environments, it is shaping the Stockholm of the
future. SISAB is responsible for real estate where 200,000 children, young
people and adults spend time on a daily basis.

Company size: 260

Industry: Public sector / Real estate

Region: Nordic

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Content Management System

## In collaboration with:

Consid AB

Consid is one of Optimizely's fastest growing and most successful digital full-
service partners.
