# SRA implements change control and content approvals

Solicitors Regulation Authority partners with Optimizely to help empower public
legal education at scale.

## The SRA partners with Optimizely to help solve its digital challenges

The Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA) regulates solicitors and law firms in
England and Wales. Its purpose is to protect the public by making sure that
solicitors meet high standards. The SRA is responsible for regulating the
professional conduct of more than 200,000 solicitors. They regulate 10,000 law
firms, as well as thousands of individuals working in-house at private and
public sector organizations.

## Making services accessible to all

The SRA team needed to provide accurate, timely information to a large cohort of
dependents across its digital platforms. The previous platform was buried in
code, and in a separate tool that couldn’t be accessed in a timely fashion. This
risked the SRA not being as responsive to the dynamic customer as they wanted to
be.

The content needed to be relevant and valuable for a range of digital users and
speak to different audiences, from legal professionals to the general public
seeking legal information and advice. Because of the nature of SRA’s services,
the regulator holds classified information and sensitive personal information,
so having a secure CMS was also a requirement for the business.

Users ranged from members of the public searching for legal services through to
professional global law firms. It was essential the SRA were able to delicately
manage the balance between the various groups they serviced online quickly and
efficiently. What was the same across all segments of users was the expectation
that the SRA delivered a trusted virtual service.

There is significant responsibility placed on the organization given they are
the body that regulates the qualification process of solicitors. They also had
to make sure they were delivering public legal education to users of legal
services.

## Meeting the needs of an array of digital users

The SRA’s services are used by hundreds of thousands of people a year, so they
needed to deliver relevant, targeted content at scale. They had identified key
milestones:

- Authentication on website
- Personalization of content offer
- Integration of content and transaction

At the core of every good experience is strong content, and Optimizely’s Content
Cloud offered major advantages for the project. Content Cloud gave the SRA the
tools to create compelling content experiences for its visitors. The system
empowered editors to create and combine content assets to create a cross section
of content to suit those looking for easy-to-digest content and those requiring
more detailed information around regulation and compliance. Some of the wording
on the SRA’s website is detailed and tricky, even for law professionals to
understand.

Optimizely’s CMS, with workflow built in, gave the SRA the opportunity to
implement change control and content approval, guaranteeing the right level of
governance for changes to the content of questions that tens of thousands of
solicitors are going to answer.

Another key consideration was to produce a platform that helped the organization
meet its security requirements. Optimizely Content Cloud requires authentication
on the content website, helping to meet security requirements and allowing the
delivery of personalized content.

The SRA holds a large volume of information about firms and individuals they
regulate. This information has the potential to drive ever more personalized
experiences of the content and products on their website, such as the
‘Solicitors Register.’

## The results

Working with Optimizely, the SRA was able to tackle its digital challenges by
keeping its content safe and managed with governance, reporting and controls
that enabled improved user journeys. A content-driven website that not only
provides information first-hand for its users but is also an authoritative
source of information that includes attributes of the service, regulatory
status, regulatory record and more, was created and all managed on one secure
platform.

The SRA sees major benefits in managing transactional content – both
microcontent and contextual help – through the Optimizely CMS rather than
sifting through code. The quality of the customer offer is enhanced, while the
strain placed on the business through needless inbound contact is reduced.

For the SRA, demonstrating value with their digital estate is not counting cash
to prove ROI. It is about demonstrating value for money. With Optimizely, the
SRA team is framing their offer in very real, relatable terms.

#### Industry

Tech

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

http://www.sra.org.uk/

## In collaboration with:

dotcentric Limited

dotcentric - a leading Optimizely agency driving commercial success through
creativity, strategy, user experience and technical know-how.
