# Source Atlantic increases monthly web visitors by 100%

## At a glance

- 2X increase in monthly web visitors
- 160,000 SKUs listed

## Source Atlantic goes where no distribution business has gone before

More than 150 years ago, WH Thorne launched a merchandise hardware business with
one basic philosophy: don’t say no. Over time, the products and services
expanded, ownership changed, and the company even rebranded, but the customer-
first philosophy has always held true. When customers come to Source Atlantic
with challenges, the Source Atlantic team works with them to find a creative
solution, no matter what.

Today, Source Atlantic offers plumbing and heating, electrical and industrial
products and employs more than 500 people, with 24 branches across Canada.
Source Atlantic partners with hundreds of world-class suppliers, offers a
multitude of specialized and technical services and has many value-added
business solutions designed to improve customers’ efficiency and productivity.

Source Atlantic is willing to go where no distribution company has gone before.
They’ve built motors that extend up to 30,000 horsepower. They’ve created the
most advanced corrosion coating available in the market today. They were even
named one of Canada’s Best Managed Companies.

As time has passed, the market has evolved and customers’ expectations and needs
have changed. But Source Atlantic has been right there with them identifying
their needs and developing new solutions to help answer the problems that
they’re having.

There are some B2B features that are standard in any eCommerce platform. But
Episerver InsiteCommerce [now Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud], has advanced
feature sets that allow us to develop a B2B solution that works perfectly

Matt Hanlon

Applied Innovation & Technology Manager, Source Atlantic

## A focus on digital transformation

Source Atlantic knew that focusing on providing better digital experiences for
their customers and their sales team was the only way to bring their business
into the future. In 2011, the company began focusing on data and business
intelligence. Transformation launched with an ERP upgrade and a Learning
Management System implementation. The company is constantly monitoring data
about inventory forecasting, sales history, usage data and more.

Digital transformation did not end with an ERP upgrade or an LMS deployment.
ERPs are powerful but they are not built to power eCommerce experiences. ERPs
have limitations in terms of finding items or using keywords.

In order to build a customer facing experience, Source Atlantic began their
search for an eCommerce platform. The platform would enable the team to add
products, bring in more enriched content and give customers the ability to
search the catalog and find what they were looking for more efficiently.

In addition, account managers needed access to a portal that enabled them to
share information about Source Atlantic products. Launching eCommerce was all
about enabling the Source Atlantic team and their customers to do their jobs
more efficiently.

Prior to investing in a more sophisticated eCommerce solution, Source Atlantic
had a simplistic site designed for use by a few contract customers. The site had
very few items and searchability was limited.

Source Atlantic knew that if they were going to do eCommerce right, they needed
to gain control of their product catalog. As a member of AD (Affiliated
Distributors), Source Atlantic had access to AD’s data feed and made content a
core cornerstone of their eCommerce implementation. The bulk of Source
Atlantic’s data comes into Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud through the AD content
feed.

## Selecting Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud

Source Atlantic conducted rigorous research when seeking an eCommerce platform.
They sent an RFQ, scheduled demos, talked with customers, consulted external
companies, compared feature sets and more. Ultimately they chose Optimizely B2B
Commerce Cloud because of the platform’s focus on B2B and business user
accessibility.

## Growing share of wallet and driving engagement

In distribution, the majority of business typically comes from less than 20% of
distributors’ customer base. Therefore, it is important to ensure repeat
customers stay happy. In distribution, one benefit of eCommerce is often about
growing and increasing share of wallet with larger, repeat customers.

Through training of salespeople, creation of portals and microsites, use of
promotions and other eCommerce functionality, Source Atlantic has been laser-
focused on growing their share of wallet.

Built-in SEO functionality is enabling customers to find more products.
Customers are self-serving and account managers are now able to offer more
consultative services because they aren’t spending time taking orders or
checking statuses.

Source Atlantic is enabling their customers to do business with them however
they choose. They aren’t forcing them to go online or go into the branch.
Instead, Source Atlantic is creating channels that allow customers to do
business more efficiently and however they choose. They are using a hybrid,
multichannel approach.

Since launching the platform, Source Atlantic’s monthly web visitors have more
than doubled. They are leveraging core B2B functionality in the platform like
budget management tools, custom fields, requisition rules, complex pricing and
more. They are working toward a greater share of wallet and are giving their
customers better access to their catalog.

Over the next few years, Source Atlantic aims to manage customer assets,
equipment and inventory. The goal is to build out a centralized digital
dashboard or portal so customers can conduct business in one area.

Source Atlantic is a historic distributor. They have seen success by building a
team made up of talented and passionate who are thinking about how they can help
the company thrive in the future. They’re constantly thinking about how to make
supply chain work in the 21st century.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

http://www.sourceatlantic.ca/

## In collaboration with:

Verndale

Verndale is a digital experience agency and Optimizely Premier Platinum partner
that designs and builds web, mobile, and commerce experiences.
