# Spirotech overhauls its content experience for customers on Optimizely

## At a glance

- Four websites launched in six months
- 2x increase in page views
- Improved time savings to focus on strategic tasks

## \*\*Spirotech’s industry-leading solutions for long-lasting heating and cooling

systems\*\*

Founded in 1954 as a family business, Spirotech specializes in industry-leading
solutions for cooling and heating systems that are energy-efficient as well as
optimized for performance.

As the first firm in the Netherlands to develop air and dirt separators for use
in heating and cooling systems, Spirotech became a leading expert in system
water quality, developing reliable standards and customized solutions to boost
performance and longevity of HVAC systems.

At the start of 2022, Spirotech acquired the Austrian company, EDER, for its
pressurization technology in HVAC installations. This acquisition allows joint
customers to benefit from the synergy of both firms for improved products and an
expanding sales network for wider availability.

Today, Spirotech is a team of 300 employees servicing customers globally.
Spirotech’s products are available worldwide through wholesalers and partners
that are well-versed in industry knowledge and Spirotech’s solutions.

The buyers of Spirotech products, via wholesalers or partners, are active in
residential and commercial projects including installers, specifiers, and
consultants in the HVAC industry.

With this distribution method, Spirotech needs to provide wholesalers and
partners, and its customers a holistic understanding of its offerings and
educate them as to why it is the go-to for high-performance solutions that stand
the test of time.

## **The challenge of sharing the Spirotech story**

Since wholesalers and partners are key to driving Spirotech sales, they must
master the breadth and depth of Spirotech’s solutions. To further drive the
demand for its products, Spirotech must ensure buyers are actively enquiring
about its solutions from wholesalers. This can only be achieved if Spirotech’s
offerings and story are communicated clearly to all parties.

The Spirotech team knew making great products is only half the battle won. They
understood that having a strong online presence is important in building
connections with existing and potential customers. Hence, customer education was
at the heart of its digital transformation.

Creating awareness of its solutions and corresponding benefits was just one
facet of its strategy. The team also had to highlight potential issues HVAC
systems face and demonstrate how Spirotech can help solve these problems. It
wanted to approach its content strategy with stories that cultivate relatability
and understanding.

Spirotech’s Digital Marketer, Laurens Costa, shared the previous solution
prioritized ecommerce over content while the next solution the business was
moving towards did not meet the basic requirements of its digital vision.

The team went through multiple attempts to establish its digital footing and
decided that their ideal digital solution should consist of:

- Integration between PIM and website
- A functional website that promotes engagement through content
- Accessible resources for wholesalers and customers on a strong CMS
- Support for multilanguage and multisite
- A flexible and practical backend interface

## \*\*Finding its footing with an exceptional content strategy rooted in creating

awareness\*\*

Having heard of and seen implementations of Optimizely, Costa was encouraged to
explore Optimizely’s capabilities for Spirotech. He was aware that selecting the
right Optimizely partner that understood Spirotech’s needs could greatly
accelerate its digital success.

Spirotech landed on Optimizely partner Delaware after exploring its options
outside and within Optimizely. Delaware and Spirotech started their partnership
on the right foot by establishing clear communication every step of the way.

Delaware’s proactiveness made it easy for the Spirotech team to work with, with
the experienced Optimizely partner sharing its expertise to speed up
developments. It also helped that the Spirotech team and Delaware were in
constant contact, streamlining the communication flow.

With Delaware’s expertise with Optimizely’s solutions, Spirotech was able to
achieve one of its immediate goals of integrating a PIM with its website,
providing the Spirotech team with a holistic, bird’s eye view of the business’s
product data. Changes made on the PIM are immediately reflected on Spirotech’s
website, reducing unnecessary and error-prone edits.

Spirotech’s content-focused digital strategy spurred its extensive utilization
of Optimizely’s Content Management capabilities. With its new website built on
.NET and Microsoft’s Azure, Spirotech had a digital solution that was fast,
secure, and capable of handling spikes in traffic, allowing customers and
wholesalers easy access to Spirotech resources.

Optimizely’s intuitive CMS also helped Spirotech craft its content strategy,
enabling the Spirotech team to create great content experiences to educate site
visitors. Since Optimizely’s Authoring & Layout blocks are easily customizable
with drag-and-drop, the team can focus fully on crafting exceptional stories,
streamlining the content creation process.

In addition, Spirotech leveraged Optimizely’s Multisite Development to build its
multisite digital solution using a shared database and content assets. Content
and Media Management are utilized in tandem to handle content permissions and
publishing, empowering the team to make quick edits that can be reflected
instantaneously.

Spirotech’s worldwide presence requires its digital solution to cater to a
multitude of languages, one of the key reasons Spirotech chose Optimizely. With
Optimizely’s multilanguage implementation, the Spirotech team can quickly
deliver content and new webpages in various languages just by editing the main
text once instead of repeating the process for every language.

Optimizely’s on-the-go mobile-responsive interface also helped the Spirotech
team develop website views that were responsive across different devices. The
Spirotech team only needs to execute minimal decision-making for its website’s
mobile layout.

With the PIM and Optimizely integration executed by Delaware, it saved us a lot
of time. Our data is now in one place.

Laurens Costa

Digital Marketer, Spirotech

## **Spirotech successfully builds an industry-leading digital solution**

Optimizely’s PIM integration capabilities streamlined internal workflows and
saved the team time to work on high-value tasks. With the partnership with
Delaware, website redirection and search engine ranking were executed smoothly.

With the flexible and intuitive content creation interface, the Spirotech team
managed to reallocate resources to focus on strategic goals instead of day-to-
day tasks. This has helped to improve sales through improved content marketing
aimed at educating customers. Its content strategy has expanded into product
placements within content pieces to drive top-of-mind recall.

Costa shared one of the most amazing feats achieved by Spirotech on Optimizely
was launching four new websites, from scratch, in six months. Spirotech’s
digital solution is available in seven different languages.

Results of its new and improved websites include more than double the number of
page views and time spent on website than before, encouraging the team to
improve awareness campaigns across its digital assets. Bounce rates also
decreased by 35%.

Leveraging Optimizely’s solution means Spirotech can focus on what it does best
– making long-lasting, energy-efficient HVAC products. This further cements
Spirotech’s position as an industry leader that prioritizes manufacturing high-
quality products for its customers.

## **Spirotech’s digital future**

With a content strategy in place, Spirotech looks forward to targeting different
groups of potential customers and approaching customers from a different angle.
This will involve improving awareness on other potential issues related to the
quality of system water in HVAC systems.

Spirotech plans to leverage Optimizely’s capabilities to build a holistic view
of its customer database to improve its understanding of who it is serving. The
company’s goal is not only to be known as an expert in manufacturing high-
quality solutions but to be established as an online expert in supporting
customers looking to optimize their heating and cooling systems for enhanced
comfort.

Costa sees Optimizely as an integral part of Spirotech’s vision in supporting
the team to achieve these goals.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Content Management System

#### Customer's website

https://www.spirotech.com/

## In collaboration with:

delaware

We are an entity with 250+ consultants, we continuously invests in improving
customer engagement and omnichannel competences.
