# How St John New Zealand handles 500K emergency calls a year

Paving the way for non-profit organizations across the world. St John New
Zealand showcase a glowing ecommerce experience, accessible to millions.

## At a glance

- 90% operational coverage of New Zealand
- 500K emergency calls per year
- No.1 provider of first aid training in New Zealand

## Setting out to create long lasting change

St John New Zealand are an independent charitable organization serving
communities right across New Zealand. The organization respond to around 500,000
emergency calls each year, charting their paramount importance to the wellbeing
of New Zealand's residents.

## Growing pains of transitioning to a digital-first organization

Being one of the largest handlers of cheques in New Zealand, and with a range of
fragmented digital experiences and a large number of customers in older
demographic groups, St John were aware that their transition into a digital-
first organization was not going to be an overnight transformation.

Some significant challenges included an abundance of legacy systems along with
manual processing and workarounds that had led them to a digital dead-end. The
team also had to contend with very limited resources and limited digital skills
within the organization, causing them to miss opportunities to engage with
customers and gain valuable insights from across their digital footprint. They
required an intelligent platform that would aid their knowledge and help grow
their marketing operations.

## Proactively making customers proactive

St John soon grasped that in order to improve customer engagement with their
site, they needed to reengineer their operations, with a focus on customer
experience, automation, integration and digital capabilities that could be
reused across their business units. This way there would be less need for their
customers to call, write-in or stand in line to receive basic information or
make transactions that could be delivered online, as well as providing St John
with the ability to drive revenue and engagement whilst reducing operational
costs and churn.

We're incredibly excited to be able to leverage the capabilities of Episerver
DXC [now Optimizely] in order to deliver class-leading digital experiences, and
– with Optimizely’s tireless support – we’re looking forward to implementing
more features (AI-driven recommendations, content personalization, etc.) as our
own capabilities grow.

Adi Wickramaratne

Digital Manager, St John New Zealand

## Delivering a new digital vision

Today, St John are leveraging Optimizely Commerce Cloud to help deliver their
transformational digital vision. The ecommerce platform enables them to boost
their commercial operations, build engaging new experiences for their customers
and deliver capabilities that can be re-used across the organization. St John
have been using Optimizely to transform their, legacy, non-intuitive website
into a purpose-built platform dedicated to engagement. Integrating with numerous
other technology stacks, they are using Optimizely Commerce Cloud to overcome
some significant business challenges.

Even though St John are only at the start of their transformation journey, they
are delivering transformational change for their customers and staff: Instead of
taking up to four weeks to receive first aid training invoices, customers now
receive documentation instantly from St John - and new self-service features are
helping drive down call volumes into their customer support centre. Their
Optimizely environment is a retail experience that will deliver customer
engagement opportunities that are head and shoulders above their peers, and
their fully-fledged ecosystem allows St John to bring the right products and
services to their market quicker than they’ve ever done before.

#### Industry

Charity and non-profits

#### Products used

- Commerce Connect
- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

http://buy.stjohn.org.nz/

## In collaboration with:

Levo Digital Pty Ltd

LEVO is the missing link.
