# Steiner Electric innovates and modernizes for a stronger future

## Serving customers for the next 100 years

A force to be reckoned with in the electrical and industrial markets, Steiner
Electric is a 4th generation, family-owned distributor that’s been in the game
for more than a century. Founded in 1916 by George S. Steiner, the Illinois-
based company is now run by George’s grandson, Rick Kerman and employs more than
400 people.

Steiner Electric built a strong foundation more than 100 years ago and is
embracing the future by transforming business to meet evolving customer needs.

Steiner wanted to give their customers the tools they needed to do their jobs on
a day to day basis. In addition, the company wanted a platform that would enable
their team to do their jobs more efficiently and create the experiences their
customers needed.

Steiner set out to build a best-in-class, omnichannel, multi-channel customer
experience. They created a long term strategy aimed at using digital
technologies to drive customer engagement. Goals for digital transformation
included: working toward finding ways to nurture underserved customers, creating
new business opportunities and expanding share of wallet.

## Creating a best-in-class customer experience

Steiner Electric is leveraging B2B Commerce Cloud to deliver a modern, intuitive
experience for their team and customers. From the beginning, Steiner recognized
that digital transformation meant more than delivering a basic website. They
couldn’t just deploy technology and be done with it. To see success with
ecommerce takes a strong technology foundation, the fuel to run that engine and
an innovative team.

Since implementing B2B Commerce Cloud in May 2019, Steiner has increased self-
service activities on their site and has seen strong trends of increased user
login accounts.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

https://www.steinerelectric.com/

## In collaboration with:

XNGAGE

XNGAGE is a Digital Services firm focused on delivering Commerce Success in B2B
for leading manufacturers, distributors, and wholesalers.
