# The Student Hotel brings hybrid co-living and working mobile

Scaling-up to deliver the Complete Connected Community

## At a glance

- 71% faster page downloads
- 99.99% availability, ensuring maximum income
- Ability to serve content to the TSH community no matter their device

## Transactional website built with Optimizely DXP and React

The Student Hotel (TSH) already had a strong personality, a distinctive tone of
voice and a hybrid co-living and working proposition that was disrupting the
hospitality industry. But they needed a partner that could translate and deliver
a meaningful experience across their entire digital ecosystem.

Pioneering a next generation hybrid model in hospitality, TSH is an urban
regenerator. They partner with cities to create new communities based around a
blend of co-living, student and hotel accommodation, with co-working, private
office and meeting spaces; enriched with lifestyle options across wellness,
entertainment, event, bar and restaurant spaces.

They needed to redefine their digital experience and overhaul their
infrastructure to enterprise-standard solutions, in response to rapid expansion
and an increasingly complex product mix. Crucially, the new infrastructure had
to be scalable, robust and enable innovative digital experiences that blend
seamlessly with physical environments. In turn, driving sustained competitive
advantage, resilience and growth.

Community is at the centre of everything TSH does – from how they build
properties to how people experience them. From the students that live there to
weekend travellers, co-workers, coffee-grabbers, and everyone in between, they
are all part of the Complete Connected Community. The experiences driven by the
new digital ecosystem needed to reflect this, connecting nearly a million
current and former co-living and co-working guests. The aim was to use the best
of digital to remove boundaries and create a feeling of community between all
those who consider themselves a ‘student at heart’.

## Visionary thinking

Optimizely partner, Rufus Leonard employed their Experience Playbook process to
create an inspiring blueprint defining The Student Hotel’s industry-leading
digital experience. The Experience Playbook captures a customer-centric yet
brand-led and technology-enabled vision. It’s a tool that translates business
strategy into meaningfully differentiated customer experiences. As well as
providing an inspiring ‘north star’, the Experience Playbook continues to add
value as a tool for TSH stakeholders to use with investors and partners as the
business grows.

Applying their own experience design expertise to collaborative research and
ideation, Rufus Leonard established a backlog of ideas and concepts to explore
and rationalise. Their approach to this was a balance between requirement-driven
outputs (e.g. for transactional journeys such as room booking) and conceptual
design thinking (e.g. app-based functionality for innovative experiences, such
as automated check-in and digital room keys). They worked with TSH to score and
prioritise the backlog of experience concepts into a delivery roadmap that would
deliver maximum value against the overarching objectives.

Rufus Leonard had the proven credentials to engineer our core digital platforms
to deliver our desired distinctive experience. This milestone is the first step
in our digital transformation from offering a collection of individual products,
to a seamless lifelong customer experience integrating a complex mix of
hospitality products, lifestyle services and learning experiences. The solution
delivers more than an enhanced brand experience, including significant
operational efficiency, scalability and – critical in these times – speed to
market

Mark Liversidge

Chief Digital & Experience, The Student Hotel

## Embarking on an intensive launch program

The team embarked on an intensive launch program to deliver a complete digital
experience designed for the modern digital native.

The result is an experience with dynamic contextual navigation, built on mobile-
first principles, that supports accessibility in all its forms, and delivers a
differentiated brand experience – performing impeccably and reliably at all
times. Underpinning the experience is an innovative hybrid hospitality UX that
is user-centric and goal-orientated, rather than one-size-fits-all. The site
uses a digital design language that can adapt to any device, enabling a
consistent look-and-feel no matter the brand touchpoint.

One of the key principles of our architecture was to enable a seamless
experience across devices. The team sort about creating an overarching design
language system that ensured common and consistent design and interaction
patterns across channels and devices, powered by Optimizely Content Cloud. It
all started by exploring design concepts for mobile app, web, wearables and in-
room AV, and refined these into a design language system and core UI library,
giving direction on colour, type, padding & shading, iconography, imagery and
interactive UI elements. This enabled a consistent look-and-feel no matter what
the brand touchpoint.

## Supporting TSH’s hyper-growth while inspiring their diverse and future-

focused international community

The technical ecosystem architecture is anchored on a headless, omni-channel,
multi-language platform. It is built on future-focused foundations, uniquely
building in Optimizely DXP and React. With additional functionality supported by
Rufus’ Omnichannel Experience.API.

As well as its well-known and easy to use content editing capabilities,
Optimizely Digital Experience Platform was selected for its mature content API
that includes A/B testing and personalisation, as well as reliable and available
hosting. All of which will help power the headless omnichannel content ambition
globally

The headless single page application (SPA), enabled by React, allows TSH to
serve the content stored in the Optimizely CMS to any number of front-end
channels: website, apps, voice interfaces, hotel lobby screens, in-room TVs –
you name it. This futureproofed solution can integrate easily with new
technology and innovations. Built on Microsoft Azure, the website can also
automatically scale with ease as it handles higher numbers of visitors – crucial
as TSH expand across more territories.

Another benefit of the headless SPA is the ability to take complete control over
the perceived and actual load times, allowing for a seamless, rich and high-
resolution content experience. It allows TSH to deliver the quickest and most
efficient way to render its website to the user while also controlling
techniques such as lazy loading for ‘below the fold’ content. Focusing on
loading only the content required by a user’s initial visit, the TSH site is
selective and personalises based on what the website visitor needs. By doing
this, the first and subsequent loads are sped up while also making huge savings
in overall bandwidth. For the customer, this results in a fast and engaging
digital experience.

The result of our fine-tuning and next generation techniques is a lightning fast
and efficient website, SEO optimised, and able to serve content to the TSH
community no matter their device. The new enterprise website has become the
first milestone in The Student Hotel’s digital experience ecosystem. With,
alongside it, a strategy to enable the success of platforms to come such as the
soon-to-follow app, built on React Native, which will integrate comprehensively
with TSH’s on-property touchpoints.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Products used

- Content Management System
- Commerce Connect

#### Customer's website

http://www.thestudenthotel.com/
