# The White Company launches an abandoned basket campaign

Email triggers for abandoned baskets deliver big returns

## Better targeting for visitor behavior

The White Company’s online traffic averages over 770,000 unique visitors each
month, including a loyal following and a significant amount of new visitors.
These visitors represent over 1.2 million shopping sessions. Although the
company was pleased with the amount of traffic, it needed to find a better way
to respond to the browsing behavior of each visitor.

## Emails triggers sent at the right time

To better monitor and respond to visitor behavior, The White Company turned to
Optimizely Intelligence Cloud and the capability Email Product Recommendations,
The White Company was able to communicate with customers through email at
exactly the right point. Rather than sending customer emails in batches, they
could instead be sent based on visitor behavior and actions tracked in real
time.Optimizely Email Product Recommendations includes ten automated behavioral
targeting strategies. To determine how much in sales each strategy could bring
in, The White Company commissioned Optimizely to produce a Customer Value Index.

“The Customer Value Index report was useful because it quantified the results we
could expect from implementing each strategy,” says Jo Stone, Retention
Marketing Manager. “This meant that we could prioritize which one to go for
first and the order in which other ones would be rolled out.”

The White Company realized that there was a tremendous opportunity to unlock a
significant amount of hidden sales. It decided to start with an abandoned basket
strategy, as this represented the greatest return of all the strategies
available.

## 16% of email recipients completed the purchase

The email trigger campaign for abandoned baskets was easy to set up. Once in
place, The White Company saw fantastic returns coming through very quickly.

Over a three-month period, 270,000 visitors qualified for inclusion in the
abandoned basket campaign. Of those visitors, 16% of them clicked through the
email and went on to complete their purchase. The White Company, therefore, was
able to recover a sale that had potentially been lost.

“We were very pleased with how quickly and easily we were able to implement the
email triggers,” says Stone. “We saw fantastic returns coming through almost
immediately, and we are excited about adopting the other strategies that are now
available to us.”

#### Industry

Retail
