# The Rank Group drives 134% increase in game launches

The Rank Group raises the stakes with experimentation and better uptake of safer
gambling tools.

## The gaming operator adopts a testing-first culture to minimize the risk of

problem gambling and improve the customer experience

Over the course of more than three-quarters of a century, the Rank Group has
entertained many millions of customers in Britain and around the world. Yet, the
gambling industry has undergone significant changes in recent years, from
managing regulatory and legislative reforms to handling the rise of the internet
and the latest technology. The Rank Group has had to adapt quickly to stay ahead
in the market.

It is for this reason that the company decided to work with Optimizely to revamp
its digital offering. The Rank Group has been able to improve the customer
journey to help people find the games they love such as simple game retargeting
for frequent customers, or showcasing new products like dual play Roulette game
to Live Casino customers. Not only can The Rank Group improve the customer
experience, it can also do so in a compliant manner against new regulations
ensuring it does its utmost to be a responsible operator.

My entire team, which is made up of designers and developers, as well as
analysts and optimisation managers, values Optimizely’s platform very highly.
Before using Optimizely, we were tracking results manually which was not only
difficult but also unreliable. Now everything is a lot more accessible which
allows us to demonstrate the real value of experimentation to the rest of our
organisation, like never before.

Kerry Dawes

Director - Digital Customer Experience, The Rank Group

## Being a responsible operator

The Rank Group’s ambition is to be the UK’s leading multi-channel gaming
operator, which is why it takes its responsibility to customers so seriously. To
achieve this goal, the company has to provide customers with not only
exceptional experiences but also processes that help keep them safe from problem
gambling.

Previously, the company had a range of ‘tools’ for customers to manage their
play, including deposit limits, set reality checks, take a break notifications
and self-exclusion capabilities. Whilst these tools were available on the site,
customers had to actively navigate the site to find them. To solve this
challenge, the company used Optimizely X Web Experimentation to discreetly
expose customers who, using predictive models, showed signs of being at risk, to
these options whilst they were online. This softer approach resulted in 10
percent of customers who were exposed to these options each week, opting into
the responsible gambling tools to keep their play at safe levels.

## Testing the power of experimentation

Through Optimizely’s platform, The Rank Group not only minimised the risk of
customers developing gambling problems but also enhanced the user experience
through reviewing other customer journeys on its site. Before Optimizely, the
team had launched a total of 100 tests, including 15 running on each brand at
any one time, using a previous platform. This has now significantly increased,
with the team having launched 150 tests in just the last six months. These range
from very complex retargeting and cross sell activities to simple tasks such as
colour changes, or changing the calls to action on the site. For example, by
testing three different colour variations with the Deposit button, the green
version was picked after successfully increasing clicks by 14 percent.

Prior to working with Optimizely, the company rarely tested out smaller changes
as the process took the same amount of time to do something small as it did to
change a complex test. As a result, complex tasks were prioritised and the
positive cumulative impact of constant, small tweaks were missed. A good example
of the impact this change has made is when the company recently tested a daily
live jackpot countdown which helped drive 134% in game launches from that
particular feed. Now, the company can go from the initial idea to building the
test in a matter of a few hours, meaning that The Rank Group never misses out on
a quick win.

As the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into force, the company
also faced the challenge of how it could continue to interact with customers in
a way that suits their wishes. The team experimented with the preference options
in an attempt to re-engage customers. The Rank Group trialled a pop-up on the
website asking people about their marketing preferences which saw 9 percent of
customers opt-in to communications which the company now plans to roll out
across the different sites it owns.

## Sharing the benefits of experimentation

The adoption of Optimizely within the business has been welcomed widely across
various teams. From designers and developers to analysts and optimization
managers, the ease of use has made a big difference to employees’ lives.
Importantly, by using Optimizely’s Program Manager, the leadership team can view
the overall health of the programme and easily access progress. As a result,
this has helped strengthen the organization’s confidence in testing and has been
integral to spreading the culture of experimentation.

## Looking to the future

As The Rank Group continues to register strong results, the teams currently
working with Optimizely will focus on implementing a testing-first culture which
will include getting involved in launching their own AB tests to sale the
programme across the business. The next step for The Rank Group will be to fully
personalise the homepage for visitors to provide customers with a top class
highly relevant experience. The business looks set to continue cashing in on
experimentation.

#### Industry

Media and entertainment

#### Product used

- Web Experimentation
