# The Country Road Group gets 65% of revenue from mobile

## At a glance

- 210% increase in clicks for anniversary promotion
- 10% purchase conversion from interface tweaks
- 65% of revenue now from mobile

## How rapid experimentation drives new ideas and innovation for leading

ecommerce fashion retailer

The Country Road Group is one of Australia's largest specialty fashion retailers
with a market leading position in the mid to upper tier of the segment.
Comprising five iconic brands - Country Road, Mimco, Trenery, Witchery and
Politix - be it modern Australian designs, urban sophistication or accessories
with a quirk, each brand has its own inspiring story to tell.

Telling those stories is now easier with Optimizely, creating incredible
experiences for customers and key metric uplift to match.

## Finding a better way to test ideas

Like many retailers, the Country Road Group’s online sites have become an
increasingly integral part of its business, accelerated by the COVID-19
pandemic. The retailer has begun an ambitious digital transformation journey to
enhance its site and further grow its online operations. With 1.5 million unique
visitors to its online stores every week, even a small conversion increase
translates to a big impact.

The company had a lot of hypotheses about interface changes to drive clicks and
conversions, but it needed a better way to run experiments.

"We’ve developed a roadmap and a robust strategy, but we want to push ourselves
as hard as possible," explains Matthew Horn, General Manager Digital, the
Country Road Group. "Our way of working has become a huge conversation. How can
we meaningfully embrace agile? How can we better experiment? Experimentation is
so pivotal to the agile philosophy."

## Faster testing delivers immediate results

The Country Road Group wanted to overhaul how it worked and experimented. It
wanted to move faster and test and learn more efficiently. To do this, it joined
forces with Optimizely as well as its strategic partner, New Republique, a
specialist consultancy dedicated to experimentation.

This enabled Country Road Group to run much faster, more powerful experiments,
testing hypotheses and getting immediate feedback to interface tweaks and
changes. One experiment involved moving the "Add to Bag" button above the
product copy. This saw a 19% rise in clicks to Add to Wishlist and a 6% increase
in clicks on Add to Bag. Overall, complete purchase conversions rose 2%,
representing a complete purchase revenue increase of over 5%.

Another hypothesis was displaying a countdown timer on the Politix brand website
would generate an urgency on the customer’s willingness to shop and make a
purchase. Using Optimizely, the experiment was carried out immediately,
resulting in a dramatic, instant boost in clicks and conversions. Add to Bag
rose 4% and complete purchase conversions were up 9%.

## Bright ideas, bold experimentation

The way the Country Road Group now tests is significantly different from pre-
COVID times. Previously, the company took a very conservative approach. Now it
has become much bolder with experimentation.

For example, the Country Road Group has used New Republique and Optimizely to
enhance special campaigns. For the Witchery brand, a 50th birthday promotion was
created, with the option to personalize a leather bag. Compared to the default
page, which simply displayed a 50th birthday banner for Witchery, the
improvement was dramatic. Clicks on the Homepage block more than doubled (up
210%), clicks on the original content snippet were up 155% and complete purchase
was 77% higher.

"Our partnership with New Republique has given us real maturity in how we think
about experimentation. They provide significant, highly valued thought
leadership. Over the last six months, it’s been exciting to see New Republique
give the value of experimentation a real and authoritative voice, backed up by
work they’re doing with brands," Matthew says.

## What’s next?

The Country Road Group is seeing dramatic results from the enhancements it has
made so far. Mobile has seen tremendous growth, with 65% of revenue now coming
from that channel.

By using Optimizely to drive constant improvements to its site, the Country Road
Group is able to evolve in step with changing shopper behavior. It’s also better
able to manage issues such as returns and the supply chain.

“We’ve come a long way, but still have a long way to go. Our culture of
delivering everything in ‘waterfall’ fashion was so heavily engrained that the
appetite for risk was very low. Now people understand that it’s okay to break
things when we’re trying new ideas. It’s not just testing and learning, but
testing, learning and breaking. Constructive failure through experimentation is
the price of progress on the digital front," Matthew says.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Web Experimentation

#### Customer's website

https://www.countryroadgroup.com.au/
