# Thermon

Leading manufacturer set about strengthening their B2B proposition with
Optimizely

## The challenge

Thermon are a B2B manufacturer of safe, reliable and innovative mission-critical
industrial process heating solutions. With over 60 years experience in providing
complete flow assurance, process heating, temperature maintenance, freeze
protection, and environmental monitoring solutions they have an envious global
reputation of providing solutions that meet the pressing needs of its customers.

Despite being a dominant player in their industry, Thermon were hosting their
entire digital environment on a homegrown platform. This held back their true
potential as there was no CMS or commerce capability. Partnering with Optimizely
Premium Partner, Guidance, Thermon realized the importance of having a robust
CMS platform to support B2B commerce activities.

We set out to transform our digital presence so that internal and external
stakeholders recognized Thermon as an innovative, progressive and efficient
manufacturer of industry leading process heating solutions. We successfully
partnered with Guidance and Optimizely to bring this vision to life.

Lance Bielke

Manager, Marketing Communications, Thermon

## The solution

After conducting a comprehensive strategic review with key stakeholders, Thermon
sought a CMS that gave the ability to easily manage content whilst seamlessly
providing advanced functionality. Coupled with their ambitious future plans, it
was imperative the CMS solution delivered scalability that would align itself
with future growth.

Guidance and Thermon were drawn to Optimizely Content Cloud. Its rich content
features, commended functionality, ease of use and ability to scale for
personalization and commerce made it proposition matched their principles.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Content Management System

## In collaboration with:

Guidance

Guidance is a customer centric ecommerce agency dedicated to growth-oriented
businesses in both B2C and B2B with industry leading practices in commerce
strategy, experience design, platform development,...
