# Torrington Supply increases number of orders by 10% with Optimizely's B2B

Commerce

## At a glance

- 10% increase in number of orders
- 35% increase in number of lines per order
- Improved cost and time savings for internal teams

## **Connecting customers to exceptional solutions for generations**

With more than 100 years of history, Torrington Supply Company (Torrco) is
family-owned plumbing, piping, HVAC and kitchen & bath supplies distributor
headquartered in Waterbury, Connecticut.

With 12 trade locations and six showrooms, it serves a variety of customers
including contractors, industry professionals, institutions, and end consumers.

Torrco’s digital transformation goal was – to build an ecommerce platform that
its customers would enjoy using, whether for purchasing, researching or as a
source of information.

Staying true to its mission, Torrco knew it needed an ecommerce platform that
would facilitate seamless research and B2B buying experience for customers,
providing customers with an online experience that rivalled brick-and-mortar
locations.

## **The gap in serving B2B customers digitally**

The previous platform Torrco used did not have a progressive roadmap for the
platform and Torrco as a business to grow. Working with offshore tech support
was also challenging for the team.

Before the COVID-19 pandemic, Torrco knew it needed to upgrade its ecommerce
platform to meet the expectations of digitally savvy customers, but its ideal
solution would require expertise with best practices and a roadmap of
improvements to meet the constantly evolving needs and business models of its
customers.

Not knowing where to start was one thing. The Torrco team was also aware that
they may not know what they do not know, causing blind spots in the process of
building their ecommerce platform.

A holistic view of customers throughout the user journey was also something
Torrco wanted to gain insight into through its ecommerce platform. This required
multiple seamless integrations.

Despite mostly serving B2B customers, Torrco was also aware that its customers
wanted to have a B2C-like online experience. This was an important aspect of its
business but was uncharted territory for Torrco.

## **Taking a customer-centric approach**

The search for a fitting solutions provider and partner was on and Torrco landed
on Optimizely and Xngage, an Optimizely partner.

With Optimizely’s intuitive and forward-thinking interface coupled with Xngage’s
understanding of Torrco’s mission, Torrco’s ideal ecommerce solution started
taking shape.

The process started with integrating Torrco’s ERP system with Optimizely’s PIM
to provide customers with real-time updates on product data, pricing and
inventory availability – both online and at specific Torrco locations. The up-
to-date information also empowers employees who are assisting customers via
other channels accurately.

A redesign that’s familiar to Torrco’s customer base was implemented for the
website to help visitors find what they are looking for swiftly and improve site
functionality. This redesign of Torrco’s site navigation ensures a frictionless
search experience, drawing on the best practices of leading B2C platforms with
clearly segmented categories, rich product information and intuitive checkout.

In addition, customers are able to log in and access account-specific
information including order management, purchase history and quick checkout.

While Torrco strives to build and deliver a seamless B2B buying experience to
its customers, the team understands that some customers prefer an omnichannel
approach to interact and transact. Torrco helps these customers by providing
them with the necessary information including physical locations and contact
details clearly on the website.

Since Torrco got the ball rolling prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, it was able to
double down on its efforts in improving user experience with the foundation laid
out. Torrco’s website served as an integral point of contact for customers who
were looking to get in touch, purchase or research products.

The strong working relationship between Torrco and Xngage as well as
Optimizely’s exceptional B2B capabilities helped shape Torrco’s new and improved
website that exceeds customer expectations.

It's so important to have a partner like Optimizely out in front for us because
with all these things like machine learning, artificial intelligence, search
programming, these things are constantly changing.

Don Polletta

Vice President, Sales & Marketing, Torrington Supply Company (Torrco)

## **Torrco’s pipeline to success**

With Torrco’s customer-centric approach to its website, especially with
intuitive site navigation and convenient product search, it came as no surprise
that its user experience improved.

Since the new website’s launch using AD enhanced eContent, Torrco’s number of
orders increased by 10% while number of lines per order increased by 35%. Torrco
customers are placing more orders as well as purchasing more items in each
order.

By partnering with AD eCommerce Solutions, Torrco has an integrated and enforced
content strategy with over 20,000 normalized and attributed SKUs. With AD’s
strategic partnership with Optimizely, Torrco leverages the AD Optimizely
Configured Commerce to aid in the ongoing ingestion of their enhanced SKU
catalog directly from the AD Member Product Information Management (PIM). In
addition to the AD enhanced eContent, Torrco leverages the AD member-driven
product classification taxonomy to drive the best digital customer experience.
Torrco continually maintains their SKU catalog by taking scheduled updates from
the AD eContent service on a weekly basis freeing up resources to no longer
spend time on classifying products and populating product attributes.

In addition, Torrco has also seen an increase in customer logins online as
customers are provided with more ways to get in touch with the team. Its
consideration for varying customer preferences while building the site meant
that it also kickstarted an omnichannel approach, allowing customers to easily
transition from online to offline or vice versa.

Torrco’s internal teams also benefited from improved work efficiency and cost
savings. Xngage’s expertise and Optimizely’s solutions help focus on what they
do best – serving the plumbing, HVAC and oil customers – instead of investing
resources in building a digital team from scratch.

Optimizely’s seamless and user-friendly solution has also helped Torrco’s
internal teams produce and publish content, saving them much more time from
their previous solution. As a result, customers are also kept up to date with
Torrco’s developments.

The frequent updates and strong support from Optimizely provide Torrco’s team
with a clear roadmap to formulate their digital strategies and the assurance
that they are on the right track to digital success, improving the business’
data-backed decision-making.

## **The pursuit of customer-centric experiences**

With a solid B2B digital experience in place, Torrco is looking to get a large
proportion of its total customer base to interact with the website, whether for
research, purchase or as a source to solve their problems.

Torrco also plans to improve their catalog for their site to act as a resource
for relevant stakeholders, both internal and external. The ideal outcome would
be to shift the search for products from informational to transactional and
ultimately, improve checkout conversion rates.

Personalization is also high on their list of priorities so that they can
constantly improve product and content recommendations. They want to deliver
recommendations promptly through customer behavior insights.

Finally, Torrco envisions a stronger omnichannel presence to empower customers
to interact and transact in their preferred manner while ensuring the same
exceptional customer experience.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

https://www.torrco.com/

## In collaboration with:

XNGAGE

XNGAGE is a Digital Services firm focused on delivering Commerce Success in B2B
for leading manufacturers, distributors, and wholesalers.
