# True Botanicals flawlessly transform digital experience to achieve $2m ROI

increase in 12 months

Learn how True Botanicals utilised Optimizely's Web Experimentation to test
their way to skincare success

## At a glance

- $2M+ estimated ROI increase
- Increase in conversion rate – site wide conversion rate of 4.9%
- 66% test win rate – well above the Optimizely average win rate

## \*\*True Botanicals’ natural-biocompatible promise strikes a chord with

skincare enthusiasts\*\*

Founded in 2015 by health-conscious founder Hillary Peterson, True Botanicals is
a luxurious, consciously crafted skincare brand on a mission to deliver clean
and sustainable products that are clinically proven to work at the highest
standards.

True Botanicals’ unrivalled commitment to sustainable beauty has earned its
esteemed reputation in the clean prestige beauty category. The company's highly
coveted products are certified MADE SAFEⓇ, the most comprehensive ingredient
safety certification available. True Botanicals sustainably and ethically
sources clean ingredients whilst also prioritizing recyclable and reusable
packaging.

True Botanicals has successfully overhauled its brand image, creative output and
positioning in just two years, from targeting more mature audiences to focusing
on “skintellectuals” who invest in skincare and are keenly interested in the
appearance and health of their skin. utilizing Optimizely’s Web Experimentation
platform has helped the team make data-informed decisions throughout their brand
redesign.

The team’s success was recognized by Newsweek’s 2022 list as one of the fastest-
growing shops in the U.S. in 2022, and has now been complimented by a successful
Series B investment in March 2023.

## **The evolving landscape of the luxury skincare industry**

As a nascent brand in the competitive luxury skincare market, Chief Marketing
Officer, Rebecca Boston, shared that the entire team was laser focused on making
True Botanicals a cult brand with differentiated, unique positioning that
connected deeply with its consumers.

VP of Marketing Tran Wu shared that the company’s vision was to turn their
website into a best-in-class luxury storefront that was a conversion-driving
machine on mobile. One of the team’s biggest challenges was navigating Apple’s
sweeping privacy changes as it impacted ads and campaigns. This elevated the
importance of transforming True Botanicals’ website into a conversion-optimized
touchpoint. To achieve that, they needed A/B testing to move the business
forward.

Before True Botanicals’ experimentation transformation, business decisions were
largely made according to well-known industry best practices, opinions and gut
instinct. However, the team was well-aware of constantly evolving customer
expectations.

Over 75% of customers access the True Botanicals website on their smartphones.
Tran detailed that True Botanicals’ strategy will always be to “think mobile-
first and obsess over the entire consumer journey” and stressed the importance
of continuous testing to validate decisions rather than working based on
standard industry practices.

With new competitors challenging the norms of the industry, the need to make
data-driven decisions to maximize conversion, retain current customers and
attract new customers was critical. Therefore, the True Botanicals team
partnered with Optimizely and its Web Experimentation platform for its website
rebrand.

## **Implementing A/B testing into True Botanicals’ DNA**

True Botanicals identified Anatta as its Optimizely implementation partner
thanks to the latter’s robust experience implementing Optimizely’s Web
Experimentation platform with prominent direct-to-consumer (D2C) brands.

Both teams quickly got acquainted and proceeded to work closely to rebrand True
Botanicals and optimize the website to drive conversions.

When it came time to dive into experimentation, the team decided to switch from
Google Optimize to Optimizely’s Web Experimentation platform. Optimizely’s
platform was ultimately chosen for its ability to execute AI-powered
personalization along with web A/B testing.

The team went from running singular tests to multiple tests which helped them
achieve statistical significance to make data-driven decisions. Constant
communication between True Botanicals and Anatta and regular ideation sessions
with Optimizely helped everyone stay on top of testing priorities.

True Botanicals’ vision of turning their website into a mobile conversion-
driving machine was spearheaded by a 3-pronged CRO testing philosophy.

1. Increase mobile conversion rate by 25%
2. CRO is a game of inches: it takes a series of tests to improve conversion rate over time.
3. Prioritize tests closest to conversion and use the PXL method to focus on the highest impact tests

Principle Creative Director at Anatta, Ruben Oviedo, shared that Optimizely’s
industry-leading capabilities, user-friendly interface, and strong partnership
made it easy for the team to test at a higher velocity and gain better insights
into True Botanicals’ customers.

Ruben also shared that the ability to seamlessly test for mobile-first
experiences has transformed True Botanical’s testing capabilities. The team can
now test throughout the customer journey, aiding True Botanicals on its way to
achieve its conversion goals.

Katie Smith (UX Designer – Anatta) commented that “the platform is really easy
to use and looking for data and results is a straightforward process.” Instead
of the team’s prior process of extracting information piecemeal, they can now
have a holistic summary as well as extract highlights to identify test winners
swiftly.

We were laser focused on creating the most seamless and frictionless shopping
experience for our consumers. Optimizely was the perfect tool to help us do
that.

Rebecca Boston

Chief Marketing Officer

## **True Botanicals successfully drives conversion with data-driven decisions**

True Botanicals’ 2022 CRO Program crushed expectations. The team exceeded its
4.8% CVR goal with a site-wide CVR of 4.9%. The team also greatly exceeded their
win rate goal with a 66% test win rate, accomplishing this through a combination
of redesigns, qualitative studies and testing efforts. These efforts led to an
estimated $2m ROI increase in the first year alone.

True Botanicals went from opinion-based decision-making to an internal culture
of data-driven strategies and data-validated decision-making after leveraging
Optimizely’s Web Experimentation. The team was also empowered to A/B test for
granular changes, driving its website conversion.

Coupled with Anatta’s support and True Botanicals’ rebranding, Optimizely helped
True Botanicals understand user behavior better by providing insights after each
test in a digestible manner.

## **Renew Collection Variation Testing**

---

## **Clinical Trials Variation Testing**

---

With Optimizely’s intuitive interface, teams can run A/B tests and extract
results easily, saving them time and contributing to improved internal
efficiency that empowered True Botanicals to focus on high-level tasks such as
business planning.

Experimenting and iterating has allowed the True Botanicals team to take away
several key learnings about both its own experimentation practices and its
customers.

**Key Learnings:**

1. 3 of 4 of top tests were related to CTA changes
2. Quantitative and qualitative insights need to be balanced for best consumer experience
3. Map out all tests a quarter in advance to drive speed and velocity

True Botanicals also discovered its user preference for both mobile and desktop
despite the digital landscape’s shift to becoming mobile-first. Testing with
Optimizely has allowed the team to learn about this user preference and provide
a digital experience that meets customer expectations.

## **The next step for True Botanicals**

True Botanicals’ conversion has gone from strength to strength since leveraging
Optimizely’s Web Experimentation. The team will now focus on delivering more
immersive beautiful mobile experiences whilst also spreading its sustainability
message across the entire website.

In addition, the team plans to become more dynamic in delivering digital
experiences depending on user device preferences. This brings the team to its
goal of leveraging more personalization across the website to ensure that
customers are shown content and product recommendations at the right time.

#### Industry

Retail

#### Product used

- Web Experimentation
