# TUI

Mobile email marketing - Automatically optimized for every device

## Challenges in mobile email marketing

Current studies show that every second German is already using the internet on a
mobile device and opens their emails on a smartphone or tablet - and the trend
is rising. For marketers, this means that the visual adaptation of newsletters
to all relevant mobile devices is essential. TUI was also faced with the
challenge of making its email marketing fit for mobile use.

## The solution: Responsive email design

With Mobile Fusion, TUI opted for Optimizely Campaign's mobile email
optimization. This feature enables the tourism company to present its emails in
a visually convincing way on desktop devices, smartphones and tablets from a
single source. Handling is simple and flexible on a template basis. The existing
email content is designed by the system for the various mobile devices. For
responsive e-mail designs, the end devices used by the recipients are
automatically recognized and the layouts are adapted to the screen size and
resolution. TUI uses this service to send marketing and campaign emails as well
as transactional emails.

## Mobile handling of travel information

In response to increasing mobile internet usage, TUI has also optimized email
communication for the "My TUI" service portal for smartphones and tablets. With
this portal, customers can handle the further handling of their trips completely
digitally after booking at the travel agency. A special function comes into play
here, which enables dynamic PDF attachments to be sent. TUI can thus
automatically and securely send travelers all travel documents for viewing on
mobile devices. In addition, the "My TUI" portal is tailored to specific cross-
selling offers that are helpful for customers, such as rental cars or travel
insurance. This allows TUI customers to make optimum use of their smartphone or
tablet both when planning their trip and when managing their vacation documents.

## Conclusion

With Episerver Campaign and Mobile Fusion, TUI can respond specifically to the
mobile needs of its travel guests and thus achieve greater customer
satisfaction. At the same time, TUI also has its finger on the pulse of the
mobile channel.

#### Industry

Travel

#### Product used

- Campaign
