# UniSA students were looking to engage in different ways

Partnering with digital consultancy Sudo Roux, UniSA deployed the Optimizely
suite, which complemented its existing tech stack.

## At a glance

- Creating engaging experiences for students
- Providing agility amid COVID lockdowns and travel restrictions
- Super-fast speed to deployment - just two months

## Overcoming the COVID challenge to engage with students

COVID-19 brought disruption to the tertiary education sector in 2020. Revenue
streams and traditional business models, including international students, were
impacted, requiring many Australian universities to pivot their approach. Faced
with the reduced ability to reach students in-person, the need for digital
solutions became key.

UniSA already had learned a lot from its previous online expos and from earlier
Open Days trials. In 2020, the university could clearly see students looking to
engage in different ways and knew they could create a better customer
experience. In the past, the university experienced all the common problems,
ranging from mobile usability issues to device incompatibility. Collaboration
such as Chat and Q&A functionality had limitations, and users weren’t
automatically directed to active live webinar sessions. Staff also spent a lot
of time with very manual registration management processes and with reporting
limitations, such as not being able to follow-up with students adequately.

Going forward, UniSA’s students will expect a level of interactive engagement
while researching their study options online, so this consolidated digital
platform will be of continuing importance in the future. It will form the basis
of all future events such as the University’s Virtual Campus days, Virtual Fairs
and year-round Careers Expos.

Matthew Sayer

CTO, Sudo Roux

## UniSA uses Optimizely to create virtual open days to engage students

The University of South Australia (UniSA) is Australia’s University of
Enterprise on the global stage, agile and astute, known for relevance, equity
and excellence. Educating and preparing global learners from all backgrounds, it
instills professional skills and knowledge, and capacity and drive for lifelong
learning. Undertaking research that is inspired by global challenges and
opportunities, UniSA delivers economic and social benefits, and which in turn
informs teaching.

## Creating a calendar of virtual events

UniSA wanted to take a data driven approach to deliver an experience that would
resonate with students. This included hosting a series of events across its
calendar. Events are integral to the prospective student recruitment process.
They have historically generated new sales leads and they allow the university
to showcase its offerings and facilities, often providing a one-to-one
personalized approach.

To do this, UniSA needed a hybrid events platform that had the potential to
scale across domestic, international and online students. Partnering with
digital consultancy Sudo Roux, UniSA deployed the Optimizely suite, which
complemented its existing tech stack.

Using Optimizely’s CMS, Monetize, a solution was implemented fast - with
deployment in less than two months. This involved over a thousand assets and 350
webpages, a suite of 60 new videos, 25 webinars, 155 campus and facilities tours
and 51 study booths.

#### Industry

Education

#### Products used

- Data Platform
- Recommendations
- Content Management System

## In collaboration with:

Sudo Roux

Sudo Roux drives business outcomes by leading with human problems and following
up with tech.
