# How Valtech have transformed their marketing organization with Optimizely

Content Marketing Platform

Learn how Valtech, partner-turned-customer, became their own success story by
improving visibility, strengthening its content supply chain and establishing
brand consistency with Optimizely’s CMP.

## At a glance

- Improved stakeholder management, with better visibility and collaboration between teams and departments.
- Fostered a consistent way of working across the globe, with the same templates and processes being used within every part of their marketing org.
- Enabled better brand consistency, gaining control over their messaging and tone of voice.
- Valtech leverages Optimizely's Content Marketing Platform, CMS, and Web Experimentation tools

Valtech is a global digital agency that helps clients transform their businesses
with innovative solutions and technologies. Valtech has been a strategic partner
of Optimizely for over 20 years, delivering over 350 implementations of
Optimizely's suite of products.

As a partner, Valtech has helped many clients achieve their digital goals with
Optimizely One. As a customer, Valtech has capitalized on Optimizely's products
to power its own marketing operations and create a seamless and cohesive
experience across all touchpoints. This was no easy feat after having acquired
eight companies in 2022, and needing to reconcile the different processes, tools
and branding that came with their expansion.

## Keeping up with a growing and complex marketing organization

Prior to 2020, Valtech's marketing team was using several different tools to
manage their overall marketing orchestration strategy. They were able to make
some of the processes work with what they had, but once their organization
expanded, they quickly realized that the way they were managing their work
wasn’t scalable or efficient. For example, they were taking a templatized
approach for overall marketing activities, but had no functionality to support
automated workflows, which meant that once the template was completed,
collaboration had to happen over email or a chat message.

It’s no surprise that this process led to challenges in execution, making it
difficult to break silos between different markets and teams, ensure brand
consistency and quality across all channels and formats, and provide
stakeholders with complete visibility of what was happening, when.

These challenges were ultimately keeping Valtech from being able to meet their
goals of long-term brand building, short term activation and focusing on return
on investment (ROI). They needed a tool that could help them overcome these
challenges and enable them to work more efficiently and effectively as a
marketing team.

## Shifting from customer implementations to their own

As a long-time partner of Optimizely, Valtech decided to treat themselves as a
client and implement Optimizely Content Marketing Platform (CMP) as its
marketing orchestration and content supply tool. Purpose-built for marketers,
which was a big selling point for Valtech, Optimizely CMP enables marketers to
plan, create, collaborate, store and publish content—all in one place.

I didn't want to end up a tool where I had to have specialists somewhere that
doing everything for me. I wanted a tool for marketing, for the marketing
people, in the marketing department. That was super important.

Mattias Malmer

Global Head of Marketing, Valtech

Along with its user-friendly interface, Valtech chose CMP for its powerful
capabilities that solve for their specific use cases.

## Use case 1: Unprecedented visibility

As a global and distributed company, Valtech’s marketing organization needs to
have complete visibility into what’s being planned for both long-term brand
building and short-term activation.

Valtech relies on CMP as their marketing system of record, using it to manage
work requests, plan and create content, and execute campaigns. “If it’s not in
the CMP, it doesn’t exist,” said Malmer.

The functionality of CMP means that every team can have their own calendar, but
they can also be aggregated too.

The board view in CMP serves as the basis of Valtech’s content stand ups, making
it easy for their team to review what’s next, what’s in progress and what is
completed.

Where they previously would have to create a deck to provide updates on what
marketing was working on, anyone in the organization can now have a
comprehensive view of planned marketing activities in the Calendar view.

Valtech also relies on the List view, which provides a spreadsheet-like
experience, to track global and local initiatives according to their
verticalized industry approach.

> “My list view is my source of truth for work that needs to get done. It’s
> great that we can each have a dashboard that can adapt to our own individual
> roles and needs.” - **Valtech employee and CMP user**.
> Their ability to view marketing activities in different ways allows Valtech to
> ensure stakeholder alignment, that all marketing activities ladder up to their
> overall strategy and that everything is measured for ROI.

## Use case 2: Increased efficiency

Valtech’s marketing organization relies on predefined project structures,
templates and integrated workflows for efficient creation of all types of
content, including campaigns, events, emails, articles and social media posts.
Recenty Valtech elevated the use of the platform beyond just content creation
(while content creation still being the main volume), making it a project
management tool for the whole marketing org.

To further accelerate their content workflows, Valtech leverages Opal,
Optimizely’s AI assistant. They integrate Opal in a variety of ways, for example
to elaborate on or refine content in just a few clicks, and to generate copy for
social posts. As an innovative digital agency, Valtech is keen to take advantage
of CMP’s AI and automation capabilities to enhance content quality and optimize
their digital experiences.

## Use case 3: Ensuring brand consistency

By consolidating their tech stack and using Optimizely CMP as the single
workspace for their entire marketing organization, Valtech is better able to
ensure brand consistency—an inherent challenge when acquiring companies with
their own brand guidelines, content and processes.

Using workflows for all content production tasks, Valtech’s marketing team can
ensure that content goes through a layer of approval before it gets published.

We needed to have better brand consistency which is easier said than done. Brand
consistency and stringent brand governance is not an easy task to master for an
entire organization. I think a lot of big companies struggle with that as well.
We’re now able to have a control mechanism on brand consistency, tone of voice,
etc.

Mattias Malmer

Global Head of Marketing, Valtech

## Valtech transforms marketing processes to operate more efficiently

Since implementing Optimizely CMP, Valtech has seen significant improvements in
the way their marketing team works and executes marketing projects, including a
big focus on content and campaigns. To illustrate this, in 2024 alone, CMP
enabled their team to achieve the following:

- **300+ content items** **were created for their website,** empowering their teams to consistently deliver engaging, high-quality digital experiences.
- In their recent acquisition of Kin+Carta, CMP played a pivotal role in ensuring brand consistency, with **170+ content items brand-washed** as part of the migration process.
- The team has successfully executed **200+ content-related projects** with nearly **900 tasks turned around** , showcasing their ability to efficiently manage complex initiatives.

Stakeholders have greater visibility into marketing activities, with shared
boards, calendars and views for different geographic regions and verticals.
They’re able to execute with improved efficiency and predictability of marketing
initiatives, with clear ownership, and the ability to leverage AI to accelerate
their workflows. With standardized templates and approvals, Valtech has also
been able to better control their brand, ensuring content has consistent
messaging, visual identity and tone of voice.

Spending less time on trying to make their disparate tools work for them,
Valtech has been able to shift their focus to ROI and outcomes of their content
and campaigns they produce.

Valtech’s utilization of Optimizely’s CMP now extends outside the organization.
For instance, when Valtech acquires another company, the challenge of seamlessly
migrating all assets and tasks, including extensive website content, is a
critical task. Leveraging the CMP’s robust capabilities, Valtech can orchestrate
the transfer of all marketing assets with precision, ensuring a smooth
transition while maintaining brand integrity across all marketing activities.

During a recent acquisition our team planned and mapped out months of work in
CMP. When the work was done, we were all amazed at how precise the planning had
been. We hit deadlines for complex, multi-stakeholder tasks that were set out.
There were all these moving pieces, but it all came together in the end, just as
we’d envisioned.

Eric Barrier

Global Content Strategist, Valtech

## Looking to the future

Valtech is always looking for new ways to innovate and transform its marketing
operations. Their marketing team aims to showcase its full Optimizely One
ecosystem— with Optimizely CMS, Web Experimentation, and CMP fully integrated—as
a reference case for its clients and prospects.

Valtech have just finalized upgrading from Optimizely CMS 11 to CMS 12 to
leverage the newest features and capabilities. Next step is to explore
implementing the CMS+CMP Publishing Integration to help them streamline creating
content for CMS by utilizing workflows in CMP.

They have piloted their instance with Marketo, their marketing automation tool,
and have built out a Marketo template within CMP. When fully deployed, this will
allow Valtech’s marketers to create emails that follow their standard template,
with the proper logo and footer, and preview how the email will look without
leaving CMP. This means they can skip all the back and forth of approvals and
edits that would normally have to be done by someone with access to Marketo,
which significantly streamlines their email creation process.

To level up their usage of AI, Valtech is considering using the Bring Your Own
AI feature in CMP, which enables users to connect their AI provider of choice to
Opal, Optimizely’s AI assistant. This will ensure that Opal’s output is
generated based on Valtech’s specific AI model trained on their data, leading to
better brand consistency across AI-generated content. Additionally, they are
considering how they can tap into AI for translations, so they can easily
localize and adapt content for different markets.

Valtech’s own marketing transformation is a testament to their 20+ year
partnership with Optimizely. Together they will continue to innovate, explore
new ways to improve their processes, and drive transformation so Valtech can be
their own best example for their customers.

#### Industry

Tech

#### Products used

- Content Marketing Platform
- Web Experimentation
- Content Management System

### Demo video: master marketing planning with Optimizely

Content planner, calendars, approval workflows and distribution across channels,
effortless using our unified tool.
