# Van Meter represents 800+ brands with B2B Commerce Cloud

Focusing on creating lasting value for customers and partners through digital
commerce

## If it uses or helps deliver electricity, chances are Van Meter, Inc. sells

it.

Founded in 1928 and headquartered in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Van Meter is a
wholesale electrical supply distributor offering everything from motors and wire
and cable solutions to solar panels and electrical components.

But, Van Meter is more than products. Van Meter focuses on creating lasting
value for the customers and partners they serve, a commitment that has been
engrained in the company since its earliest years – and one that helped them
thrive even through the Great Depression.

100 percent employee-owned, Van Meter represents more than 800 brands in the
electrical, automation and mechanical industries, with 16 branches in the
Midwest and plans for further expansion.

Underlying Van Meter’s commitment to service is the team’s relentless spirit of
innovation and vision for growth. In order to continue innovating and growing,
Van Meter set out to be a better digital partner to their customers and serve
them in more meaningful ways.

Our customers expect the same level of sophistication and convenience from a B2B
ecommerce experience that they enjoy when shopping in the B2C world. Our
partnership with Episerver has allowed us to make great strides in offering that
kind of experience on vanmeterinc.com

Karmen Wilhelm

Vice President of Marketing, Van Meter

## From basic online ordering to a fully integrated, best-in-class digital

experience

As a leader and innovator in the industry, Van Meter was early to adopt a web
order entry tool, built by their ERP provider, in the mid 2000s. In 2014, Van
Meter built a more robust ecommerce site and completed a subsequent redesign in 2016.

By 2018, Van Meter recognized the site had become fairly stagnant. Customer
adoption had plateaued, sales weren’t improving and the site was not built to
scale.

Simple edits or customizations weren’t possible, or if they were, took far too
long to keep up with Van Meter’s desired pace. Their team didn’t have control
over even small edits to the platform. Additionally, the CMS was essentially
non-existent. As a result, Van Meter had to leverage two separate systems to
piece their commerce and marketing content together. It became apparent that a
new technology solution was needed.

Van Meter’s vision was to get beyond web order. They didn’t want a partner that
could help them with basic online transactions, they wanted a partner that could
enable them to completely overhaul their digital customer experience and add
true business value.

## B2B ecommerce as the catalyst for growth

Van Meter wanted their ecommerce site to be a growth engine, one that could
drive revenue for the company. In a perfect world, at least 10 percent of
overall sales would go through the website by 2025. In order to reach that goal,
Van Meter needed organizational buy-in and change.

As they searched for the right ecommerce solution for the paradigm shift, Van
Meter conducted vast internal and external research. Van Meter gained an
understanding of where they were and where they wanted to be and incorporated
insights and feedback direct from their customers. As they continued their
research and started identifying suitable platforms, they came across
Optimizely.

Optimizely was able to provide a robust B2B ecommerce assessment that helped Van
Meter understand their requirements. Some of the requirements at the top of
their list included:

• Integration with their Epicor Eclipse ERP and other backend systems• Customer
portal• Customization capabilities• Guest checkout• Credit card/payment methods•
Customer support• Strong implementation partner network• CMS to manage marketing
content alongside ecommerce• Out-of-the-box SEO capabilities• Strong
understanding of key groups like AD and IDEA

## Early results despite a launch at the height of a global pandemic

Van Meter launched their new site powered by Optimizely in June 2020, at the
height of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Optimizely’s partner, Xngage was top notch throughout the implementation of B2B
Commerce Cloud. Their experience, expertise and knowledge of the Epicor ERP
system helped make the integration process very smooth. The site was up and
running in just over eight months.

Even through change and disruption, Van Meter’s results tell a powerful story.

As Van Meter grows into new markets, they are now able to garner more sales with
fewer people resources. By moving some of the service-based activities online,
salespeople are able to focus on higher value tasks and let the ecommerce site
work 24/7. Customers can seamlessly serve themselves online to access order
history, checkout and view account information.

In just six months time, Van Meter has seen incredible business value by
partnering with Optimizely.

Customers were quick to adopt the platform. In fact, in the first quarter live,
Van Meter saw the number of active accounts more than double. The percent of
active accounts, or digitally engaged customers, climbed to 60% from 25% year-
over-year.

Van Meter’s site has also attracted new customers. In just six months, Van Meter
added 62 net new, online only accounts. Many of those customers went on to apply
for business accounts with Van Meter, an avenue that was not available to
customers prior to the new site going live.

Additionally, Van Meter is expanding to new markets. Between guest orders and
net new accounts, the website helped Van Meter sell into 12 states, something
that was not possible with the previous site.

In Q3 of 2020, online order frequency increased by 23% year-over-year. In
addition, Q3 brought the most first-time online orders ever. Customers who had
never placed an order online were swiftly adopting the new site.

Online sales are helping to make Van Meter even more profitable. In fact, gross
profit for online orders is five percent higher on average than the organization
overall.

Finally, it’s worth mentioning that several online transactions have occurred in
the same session as a blog content pageview, proving the combined value of
marketing content and commerce. Several customers are checking out product
focused and promotional blog content before making online purchases.

It’s clear that Van Meter has gone far beyond online transactions. Their B2B
ecommerce website is driving true business value and is part of an omnichannel
growth strategy.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Configured Commerce

#### Customer's website

http://www.vanmeterinc.com/
