# Verivox sees 70% increase in cross sells through testing

## Nimble, efficient optimization strategy helped increase cross-sells by 70%

Verivox is Germany’s largest independent consumer portal for energy, and also
offers online comparisons for telecommunications, insurance, and finance
products. Their website allows visitors to compare rates among providers with
just a few clicks and then quickly switch to the most suitable option. Verivox
has helped German consumers exchange more than 8 million contracts, saving them
more than one billion euros.

## Optimization at Verivox

Verivox’s primary revenue stream comes from commissions earned when customers
close a new contract. Thus, the company’s primary business goals are to get as
many of the visitors to their website as possible, and then to close new
contracts. Optimization helps them drive toward both of these key objectives.

Conversion Architect Frank Herberg has contributed to Verivox’s growth since
2007 with his work in front-end development, usability testing, user experience,
and now: optimization. A/B testing and optimization has been Frank’s primary
focus since 2013.

Frank works with product managers across divisions to build the company’s
testing roadmap and optimization strategy, but he is also able to accomplish a
great deal on his own. He regularly uses Optimizely to build and design smaller-
scale experiments (such as landing page tests) on his own – even without a
knowledge of HTML or CSS. Many of these tests have had a massively positive
impact on Verivox’s conversion goals.

For more complicated tests, Frank works in collaboration with the company’s IT
team and external service providers. With Optimizely, this collaboration is
simple and seamless – allowing Frank to grant the appropriate level of access
and permission to each team member involved.

It’s surprising just how much can be achieved using Optimizely’s visual editor.

Frank Herberg

Conversion Architect, Verivox, Verivox

## Featured experiment: A 70% lift in cross-sells

Frank recently optimized the "Thank You" page that appears after a new contract
is closed. This step originally provided customers with a confirmation only, but
Frank hypothesized that offering additional cross-sell options at this step
would further boost revenue per visitor. He tested several different designs and
messages for the cross-sell offer. Ultimately, the winning variation increased
total cross-sells by 70%.

### A focus on continous testing

At Verivox, optimization is an iterative process, where test results are
constantly used to draw up new hypotheses for the next round of experimentation.
In this way, the Verivox team is able to constantly improve their understanding
of consumer behavior. As consumer needs and preferences change, Verivox is able
to adapt in real time.

Continuous, iterative testing is a crucial element of any successful
optimization program.

### Looking ahead

Verivox chose to start small – with Frank spearheading the majority of testing
efforts – but the program’s proven success quickly gained recognition across the
company. After seeing such tremendous impact with limited resources, Verivox
plans to spread optimization to more teams and departments across the
organization in order to continue driving toward its key business objectives.

#### Industry

Tech

#### Product used

- Web Experimentation

#### Customer's website

https://www.verivox.de/
