# Wall Art GmbH

7 % increase in sales - through Optimizely Personalization

## Approach & implementation

K&L Wall Art GmbH found Optimizely Personalization to be an easy-to-implement
and reliable solution. By using the Web Product Recommendations and Email
Product Recommendations modules (personalized email & trigger campaigns), the
company now reaches its customers across various communication channels.

Web Product Recommendations was integrated at 13 points in the online stores.
All visitors now see individual product recommendations during each session. The
components were planned together with K&L Wall Art GmbH. The implementation was
carried out by Optimizely's configuration team. Thanks to the optimal
integration of Web Product Recommendations, K&L Wall Art GmbH was able to
achieve a 7% increase in total sales and a 26% increase in average purchase
value. The increase in sales was also actively supported by a simultaneous
increase in conversion of 8.3%. Every fifth order placed by K&L Wall Art GmbH
included product recommendations from Optimizely.

The successes achieved with Optimizely Personalization have convinced us without
exception. In addition to the solution itself, we particularly appreciate the
competent and personal support. Optimizely delivers what it promises.

Nico Schneider-Lohrentz

CEO K&L, Wall Art

## Personalized recommendations by email

At the same time, Email Product Recommendations was successfully integrated into
the email marketing activities. Since then, every weekly newsletter has been
enriched with personalized recommendations. The product selection is based both
on visitor-oriented algorithms, which are based on individual surfing and
purchasing behaviour, as well as merchandising rules requested by K&L Wall Art
GmbH. This means that the most relevant products for each recipient are
displayed in each newsletter and sales are actively stimulated. Email Product
Recommendations contributes to 34% more onsite traffic and 18% more interaction.

The parallel use of Web Product Recommendations and Email Product
Recommendations also optimizes the presence of products in the store. This is
because the importance and relevance of the recommended products are based on
visitor behavior. The product catalog, which has been growing for over 10 years,
is automatically and optimally presented to the visitor through the dynamic
display of similar articles and the mixing of old and new products. Manual
maintenance is no longer necessary.

#### Industry

Consumer goods

#### Product used

- Campaign
