# Redefining digital experiences for 680,000 residents

Waukesha County ‘liberate’ their digital services, migrating from Ektron to
Optimizely

## Third largest county in Wisconsin enjoy ''a more living and dynamic

relationship with the people we serve'' by moving to Optimizely

500-year old government administration, Waukesha County provide services to
nearly 700,000 citizens - ranging from court systems and public safety to mental
health hospitals, tax collection and recreation services.

## Highest quality of services for the best possible cost

Operating at a civil capacity, Waukesha County’s work is statutory or regulatory
so are scrutinized on their delivery. They must demonstrate due diligence in
their selection of suppliers. Being the sole government body for the county, the
team has an obligation to provide the highest quality services, to the greatest
number of citizens, within stringent budget allocations - so they don’t burden
taxpayers.

‘’everybody wants a better service and to do this we need better technology. We
have to figure out how to implement some of these newer technologies into what
is obviously a very old business’’

## Creating disruptive, positive change against the status quo

One of the greatest challenge’s Government authorities face, is the ability to
change at the pace of their service-user’s expectations - especially in the
adoption of better technology. However, this is difficult with a three-year
cycle from ‘decision-to-implementation’ the norm.

## ‘’Nobody wants to be first – everyone wants to see a proven solution’’

With the exciting opportunity for change, Waukesha County ignited a movement to
modernize their digital capabilities. They challenged the status-quo, opting for
a digital transformation that would better serve their public and internal
teams.

## Meeting the needs of over half a million people

Following a consultation it was decided the time had come to modernise Waukesha
County’s internal and external websites to create a better way of communicating
with the public effectively and offer the town’s citizens a better service.

‘’Ektron wasn’t a long-term solution. We had to get off the older technology on
to the newer’’

Engaging with as many people as possible, Waukesha County collated thousands of
pieces of feedback from various stakeholders. They had taken onboard a broad
subset of expectations, eventually having to reign in on a compromised solution
that would satisfy the majority.

We changed the game in how to communicate with the public on an almost
instantaneous basis.

Dave Kragenbrink

Solutions Administrator, Waukesha County

## Implementing Optimizely to provide superior engagement capabilities

Waukesha County chose to migrate their digital platform from the existing Ektron
platform to Optimizely. This enabled them to embrace newer technologies that
would better serve its internal and external stakeholders.

With the Optimizely CMS having advanced functionality that was simple to
maintain, the County described Optimizely as a “liberating platform” that
enabled it to upgrade a lot of its function items and deliverables.

## The Optimizely upgrade

Waukesha County converted its external and intranet sites from Ektron to
Optimizely, deploying Optimizely CMS for its new interface. The intranet site
was a complete site redesign, in addition to changing the back-end. Essentially
a brand new Optimizely site was built from scratch and replaced the old
site.Optimizely was able to leverage some functionality that the local
government didn’t currently have with its site and gave the opportunity to
upgrade lots of functional items and deliverables. It was able to build tools
based on customer expectations and ongoing customer feedback as opposed to just
adding things from a ready-made list.

## Efficient user-journey’s

For 2018, Waukesha County recorded 3.3m page views on its external website with
2.3m unique visitors. In January of 2019, 180,000 visitors were recorded.

The goal of the new interface is to deliver visitor information as quickly as
possible. Visitors tend to want one thing at a given time before exiting the
site.

Optimizely Find was is an extremely powerful tool for Waukesha, aggregating
information quickly, so user journeys remain quick and efficient.

Optimizely CMS has allowed data visualization to become the norm for internal
and external stakeholders. Integrating with Power BI, users can view graphic
illustrations such as customer satisfaction levels and recycling rates.

## Positive outcomes

Initial site feedback has been extremely positive. External users have reported
the site is much easier to navigate and more desirable. Those inside the
organization have said the site is a stark difference to how it was with some
describing it as ‘fresh and clean’ and ‘exactly what was needed’.

Content editors have expressed positive opinions on the usability of the media
management of the site and stakeholders are enjoying the platform which is
empowering them in their different business units. The site sees more
information being posted and much more valuable information being posted because
it is very easy to do.

Waukesha County is always looking at future options for improving both sites and
expanding their functionalities. It is considering Optimizely Commerce for
taking payments in the future and integrating its document management system.

#### Industry

Tech

#### Product used

- Content Management System
