# Weiler Abrasives creates a global, fully-responsive, multi-lingual site

Weiler Abrasives provides 24/7 access to their products with Optimizely B2B
Commerce Cloud

## With roots dating back to 1898, Weiler Abrasives is building a better future

Joseph E. Weiler was a master brushmaker for the jewelry manufacturing industry
in Pforzheim, Germany. His oldest son, Karl E. Weiler, followed in his father’s
brush making footsteps and emigrated to the U.S. from Germany in 1927. In 1944,
Karl launched a power brush business in a converted chicken coop on New York’s
Long Island. 75 years later, Weiler Abrasives is now led by the fourth
generation, Chris Weiler and includes 1300 employees in 8 different countries
across the globe.

Weiler Abrasives has grown from a power brush manufacturer to a global surface
conditioning problem-solver. Weiler Abrasives is driven by helping their
customers build a competitive edge, stay productive and be profitable.

The team takes pride in forming strong relationships with their distributor
partners and their end users. In order to create growth and deliver competitive
advantages for their customers, Weiler Abrasives launched a journey of digital
transformation. Because the team is passionately engaged in bringing forward new
ideas, creative problem solving and continuous improvement to serve their
customers, Weiler decided to launch a complete digital transformation involving
multiple technologies, people and processes.

## Early success with digital transformation

Weiler Abrasives launched an entire long-range digital plan. That plan included
implementing a PIM to have a single source of truth for product, then launching
a new website powered by Optimizely B2B Commerce Cloud.

The new ecommerce website needed to be a global, fully-responsive, multi-lingual
website. When the team at Weiler Abrasives went on their hunt for the right
ecommerce platform fit they decided to partner with Optimizely for three key
reasons:

- Easy integration with their PIM to provide enhanced product content
- Slick interface that understands different personas and categories
- A strong product roadmap

In August 2019, Weiler Abrasives launched a website designed to improve user
experiences and provide access to purchase products through select distribution
partners.

Weilerabrasives.com features dynamic search functions that allow users to
quickly and easily find products, solutions and resources. With the new website,
visitors have easy access to product information, can quickly find their local
branch or online seller of Weiler products and can access the site anytime,
anywhere.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Customer's website

https://www.weilerabrasives.com/
