# Yamaha WaterCraft Group

Delivering persona-based personalization for lead generation

## At a glance

- 92% increase in sessions for Yamaha Boats
- 85% increase in page views
- 100% increase in mobile traffic

## The challenge

Yamaha WaterCraft Group is responsible for the sales, marketing, and
distribution of Yamaha WaveRunners and Yamaha Boats across the United States.
Their websites were struggling to fulfill the wide-reaching ambitions of the
brand. With the same static pages being delivered to every visitor, the company
was losing users who expected a highly personalized and intuitive digital
experience.

Yamaha WaterCraft Group enlisted the help of Optimizely partner Whereoware to
redesign their websites to be modern, personalized, user friendly, and
ultimately, capable of generating high-quality leads to local dealerships.

Our products ignite a passion and a drive for amazing experiences in our
customers, and we wanted our digital, mobile and web experience to exude that
same energy. Working with Whereoware and [Optimizely] Episerver allowed us to
tap into the latest technology and development platforms, along with a world-
class design and UX team, to bring our products to life in way that replicates
the fun and excitement our customers have on the water.

Bryan Seti

General Manager, Yamaha’s Watercraft Group

## The solution

With Optimizely’s automatic landing pages, both sites can easily attract long-
tail organic search traffic, from otherwise highly competitive keywords, making
it easier for potential buyers to find them. Since site launch, Yamaha
WaveRunners has seen an 84% increase in site traffic, and Yamaha Boats saw a 92%
increase in site traffic. Once on site, visitors are now greeted with a modern
and clean website that lets environmental and lifestyle imagery show off product
details.

With a focus on the end consumer, Yamaha and Whereoware developed an interactive
quiz on both homepages to help consumers decide on the best WaveRunner or Boat
for their interests, budget and lifestyle. They further this focus by
personalizing messaging, images and promotions throughout the website, based on
user behavior. If a website visitor fits the “21-foot boat persona”, the
homepage slider features a streaming video and environmental images of a 21-foot
boat. As they scroll down the page, product images and text change to be more
relevant to a consumer shopping for a 21-foot boat. This persona-based
personalization continues throughout internal site pages. Serving the right
content to the right person helps prospective customers find the Yamaha
products, videos, top technologies, and dealer locations they need to make an
informed shopping decision.

#### Industry

Manufacturing and distribution

#### Product used

- Content Management System
